<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/><title>
      The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Eternal City, by Hall Caine.
    </title>
<link href="190020258907861868_eternal-cover.jpg" id="id-3637337646521578331" rel="icon" type="image/x-cover"/><link href="0.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="1.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="pgepub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="Ebookmaker 0.12.36 by Project Gutenberg" name="generator"/>
</head>
<body class="x-ebookmaker x-ebookmaker-3"><div style="margin: auto; text-align: center; padding-top: 1em; padding-bottom: 1em;">
<a id="PART_EIGHT_THE_KING"></a>
<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00477" title="375"><a id="Page_375" title="375"></a></span>
<h2 id="pgepubid00478">PART EIGHT—THE KING</h2>
</div>
<h3 id="pgepubid00479">I</h3>
<p>Early on the morning of Holy Saturday a little crowd of Italians stood
on the open space in front of the platform at the Bahnhof of Zürich.
Most of them wore the blue smocks and peaked caps of porters and
street-sweepers, but in the centre of the group was a tall man in a
frockcoat and a soft felt hat.</p><p>`在聖週六的清晨，一小群義大利人站在蘇黎世火車站的平臺前的開放空地上。他們大多數人都穿著藍色的工作服和尖頂帽子，像搬運工和清道夫一樣，但在這群人的中心是一個穿著燕尾服和柔軟的羊毛帽子的高個子男人。`</p>
<p>It was Rossi. He was noticeably changed since his flight from Rome. His
bronzed face was paler, his cheeks thinner, his dark eyes looked larger,
his figure stooped perceptibly, and he had the air of a man who was
struggling to conceal a consuming nervousness.</p><p>"那是羅西。自他從羅馬逃走以來，他明顯變了樣。他那曾經黝黑的臉色現在變得蒼白，他的臉頰變得更瘦，他的深色眼睛看起來更大了，他的身形明顯地彎腰駝背起來，他顯然是一個努力隱藏內心緊張不安的人。"</p>
<p>The bell rang for the starting of a train and Rossi shook hands with
everybody.</p><p>火車開始響起的鈴聲，羅西與每個人握手道別。</p>
<p>"Going straight through, Honourable?"</p><p>"直接過去，尊敬的嗎？"</p>
<p>"No, I shall sleep at Milan to-night and go on to Rome in the morning."</p><p>"不，我今晚將在米蘭過夜，明早再前往羅馬。"</p>
<p>"<i>Addio, Onorevole!</i>"</p><p>"再見，尊敬的!"</p>
<p>"<i>Addio!</i>"</p><p>"再見！"</p>
<p>The moment the train started, Rossi gave himself up to thoughts of Roma.
Where was she now? He closed his eyes and tried to picture her. She was
reading his letter. He recalled particular passages, and saw the smile
with which she read them. Peace be with her! The light pressure of her
soft fingers was on his hands already, and through the <i>tran-tran</i> of
the train he could hear her softest tones.</p><p>火車一啟動，羅西就讓自己沉浸在對羅馬的思念中。她現在在哪裡呢？他閉上眼，試圖想象她的樣子。她正在閱讀他的信。他回憶起信中的某些段落，看到她讀它們時的微笑。願她平安！她柔軟細嫩的手指已經輕松地撫摸著他的手，透過火車的隆隆聲，他能聽到她的聲音越來越柔軟。</p>
<p>Nature as well as humanity seemed to smile on Rossi that day. He thought
the lakes had never looked so lovely. It was early when they ran along
the shores of Lucerne, and the white mists, wrapping themselves up on
the mountains, were gliding away like ghosts. One after another the
great peaks looked over each other's shoulders, covered with pines as
with vast armies crossing the Alps, thick at the bottom and with thinner
files of daring spirits at the top. The sun<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00480" title="376"><a id="Page_376" title="376"></a></span> danced on the waters of the
lake like fairies on a floor of glass, and when the train stopped at
Fluelen the sound of waterfalls mingled with the singing of birds and
the ringing of the church bells. It was the Gloria. All the earth was
singing its Gloria. "Glory to God in the highest."</p><p>當天，無論是大自然還是人類，都對羅西露出了微笑。他覺得湖泊從未如此美麗過。當他們一早沿著盧塞恩湖的岸邊行走時，白色的迷霧包裹著山脈，像幽靈一般滑走。這座座偉大的山峰排山倒坡地出現在對方的肩膀上，就像是一支覆蓋著廣大阿爾卑斯山脈的軍隊，下部密集，上部則是一線膽大的先知。太陽在湖水上跳舞，就像是仙女在玻璃地板上舞動，而當火車在弗呂伊倫停下來時，瀑布的聲音與鳥兒的歌唱和教堂的鐘聲交織在一起。那是「榮耀」。整個地球都在歌唱它的「榮耀」，“願榮耀歸於至高的上帝。”</p>
<p>Rossi's happiness became almost boyish as the train approached Italy.
When the great tunnel was passed through, the signs of a new race came
thick and fast. Shrines of the Madonna, instead of shrines of the
Christ; long lines of field-workers, each with his hoe, instead of
little groups with the plough; grey oxen with great horns and slow step,
instead of brisk horses with tinkling bells.</p><p>當火車接近義大利時，羅西的快樂幾乎變得像男孩子一樣激動。當穿越了那條巨大的隧道後，新種族的跡象迅速而密集地出現。這裡的聖壇都是供奉聖母瑪利亞，而不是基督；長長的一排農田工人，每人手上都握著鋤頭，而不是小小的團體與犁共事；還有灰色的牛，緩慢的步態和龐大的角，而不是掛著叮噹作響的鈴鐺的輕快馬匹。</p>
<p>Signs of doubtful augury for the most part, but Rossi was in no mood to
think of that. He let down the carriage window that he might drink in
the air of his own country. In spite of his opinions he could not help
doing that. The mystic call that comes to a man's heart from the soil
that gave him birth was coming to him also. He heard the voice of the
vine-dresser in the vineyard singing of love—always of love. He saw the
oranges and lemons, and the roses white and red. He caught a glimpse of
the first of the little cities high up on the crags, with its walls and
tower, and Campo Santo outside. His lips parted, his breast swelled. It
was home! Home!</p><p>`大部分是不祥之兆的跡象，但羅西並不在心情去想那些。他放下馬車的窗戶，以便他能喝下他自己國家的空氣。儘管他的觀點，他還是忍不住這麼做。從他出生的土壤對一個人的心產生的神秘呼喚也正在對他產生影響。他聽到葡萄園中的葡萄種植工在歌唱—關於愛—總是關於愛。他看到那些橙子，檸檬和白色及紅色的玫瑰。他瞥見了那座矗立在峭壁上的第一座小城市，城市的牆和塔以及外部的聖域。他的嘴唇微張，胸腔泛濫。這是家！家！`</p>
<p>The day waned, the sky darkened, and the passengers in the train, who
had been talking incessantly, began to doze. Rossi returned to his seat,
and thought more seriously about Roma. All his soul went out to the
young wife who had shared his sufferings. In his mind's eye he was
reading between the lines of her letters, and beginning to reproach
himself in earnest. Why had he imposed his life's secret upon her,
seeing the risk she ran, and the burden of her responsibility?</p><p>`일 저녁, 하늘이 어두워지고, 기차 안의 승객들은 지껄이던 대화를 중단하고 졸음에 빠지기 시작했다. 로시는 자리로 돌아가고, 로마에 대해 보다 진지하게 생각했다. 그의 모든 마음이 그의 고통을 함께 나눠 주었던 젊은 아내에게 향했다. 그는 그녀의 편지 사이사이를 읽고, 자신을 진지하게 비난하기 시작했다. 그는 왜 그녀에게 생명의 비밀을 강요했는지, 그녀가 감수해야 할 위험을 봤음에도 불구하고, 그녀의 책임의 부담을 봐야하는지.`</p>
<p>The battle with his soul was short. If he had not trusted Roma, he would
never have loved her. If he had not stripped his heart naked before her,
he would never have known that she loved him. And if she had suffered in
his absence he would make it all up to her on his return. He thought of
their joyous day on the Campagna, and then of the unalloyed hours before
them. What would she be doing now? She would be sending off the telegram
he was to receive at Chiasso. God bless her! God bless everybody!</p><p>他與自己的靈魂的戰鬥很短暫。如果他沒有信任羅馬，他就永遠不會愛上她。如果他沒有在她面前將自己的心裸露出來，他就永遠不會知道她愛他。如果她在他離開期間遭受苦痛，他將在回來時彌補她所有的一切。他想到了他們在坎帕尼亞的快樂日子，然後想到了他們前面純潔的時間。她現在會在做什麼呢？她會傳送他應該在基亞索接收的電報。神保佑她！神保佑每個人！</p>
<p>The thought of Roma's telegram filled the whole of the<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00481" title="377"><a id="Page_377" title="377"></a></span> last hour before
he reached the frontier. He imagined the words it would contain: "Well
and waiting. Welcome home." But was she well? It was weeks since he had
heard from her, and so many things might have happened. If he had
managed his personal affairs with more thought for himself, he might
have received her letters.</p><p>羅馬的電報讓他在到達國境前的最後一個小時裡心神不寧。他想像著電報裡的內容：“狀況良好並等待你的回家。”但她真的好嗎?自從他上次從她那裡聽到訊息以來，已經過去好幾週了，許多事情可能已經發生。如果他讓自己對自己的個人事務更有所思考，他可能已經收到了她的來信。</p>
<p>Heavy clouds began to shut out the landscape. The temperature had fallen
suddenly, and the wind must have risen, for the trees, as they flashed
past, were being beaten about. Rossi stood in the corridor again,
feeling feverish and impatient.</p><p>沉重的雲層開始遮蔽了風景。溫度突然下降，風也應該是升起來了，因為一瞬間閃過的樹木都在激烈地搖晃。羅西再次站在走廊裡，感到有些發燒和不耐煩。</p>
<p>At length the train slackened speed, the noise of the wheels and the
engine abated, and there came a clap of thunder. After a moment there
was a far-off sound of church bells which were being rung to avert the
lightning, and then came a downpour of rain. It was raining in torrents
when the train drew up at Chiasso, but the carriages were hardly under
cover of the platform when Rossi was ready to step out.</p><p>終於，火車減慢了速度，輪子和引擎的噪音減弱了，接著是一聲雷鳴。過了一會兒，遠處傳來教堂的鐘聲，這是為了避免閃電而敲鐘。然後，大雨傾盆而下。當火車停在基亞索時，雨正豪瀝如注，但列車剛剛停靠在車站的覆蓋下，羅西就已經準備下車了。</p>
<p>"All baggage ready!" "Hand baggage out!" "Chiasso!" "The Customs!"</p><p>"所有行李準備好了！" "手提行李出來！" "基亞索！" "海關！"</p>
<p>The station hands and porters were shouting by the stopping train, and
Rossi's dark eyes with their long lashes were looking through the line
of men for some one who carried a yellow letter.</p><p>車站的工作人員和搬運工在停車的火車旁邊大喊，羅西的深色雙眼和他的長睫毛正在人群中尋找一個持有黃色信封的人。</p>
<p>"Facchino!"</p><p>"搬運工!"</p>
<p>"Signore?"</p><p>"先生？"</p>
<p>"Seen the telegraph boy about?"</p><p>"有看到電報男孩嗎？"</p>
<p>"No, Signore."</p><p>"不，先生。"</p>
<p>Rossi leapt down to the platform, and at the same moment three
Carabineers, who had been working their heads from right to left to peer
into the carriages as they passed, stepped up to him and offered a
folded white paper.</p><p>"羅西跳到月臺上，就在同一時刻，三名憲兵，他們一直從右向左移動著頭，以便在車廂通過時窺視，他們向他走去並遞給他一張折疊的白紙。"</p>
<p>He took it without speaking, and for a moment he stood looking at the
soldiers as if he had been stunned. Then he opened the paper and read:
"<i>Mandate di Cattura....</i> We ... order the arrest of David Leone,
commonly called David Rossi...."</p><p>他沒有說話就接過它，站在那裡看著士兵，好像他被震驚了一樣。然後他開啟紙條讀取："Mandate di Cattura.... 我們...命令逮捕David Leone，通常被稱為David Rossi...."</p>
<p>A cold sweat burst in great beads from his forehead. Again he looked
into the faces of the soldiers. And then he laughed. It was a fearful
laugh—the laugh of a smitten soul.</p><p>他的前額突然冒出大滴的冷汗。他再次端詳著士兵們的臉。然後他笑了起來。那是一種令人恐懼的笑聲——是一種受傷靈魂的笑聲。</p>
<p>The scene had been observed by passengers trooping to<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00482" title="378"><a id="Page_378" title="378"></a></span> the Customs, and
a group of English and American tourists were making apposite comments
on the event.</p><p>該場景被前往海關的乘客們觀察到，一群英國和美國的遊客對此事件發表了恰當的評論。</p>
<p>"It's Rossi." "Rossi?" "The anarchist." "Travelled in our train?"
"Sure." "My!"</p><p>"是羅西。" "羅西？" "那個無政府主義者。" "他在我們的火車上旅行過？" "當然。" "哎呀!"</p>
<p>The marshal of Carabineers, a man with shrunken cheeks and the eyes of a
hawk, dressed in his little brief authority, strode with a lofty look
through the spectators to telegraph the arrest to Rome.</p><p>`憲兵元帥身材消瘦，眼如鷹隼，衣著顯現其權威地位，以威嚴的姿態穿越人群，向羅馬發出他被逮捕的電報。`</p>
<h3 id="pgepubid00483">II</h3>
<p>When the train started again, Rossi was a prisoner sitting between two
of the Carabineers with the marshal of Carabineers on the seat in front
of him. His heart felt cold and his chin buried itself in his breast. He
was asking himself how many persons knew of his identity with David
Leone, and could connect him with the trial of eighteen years ago.
<i>There was but one.</i></p><p>當火車再次啟動時，羅西成為了一名囚犯，坐在兩名憲兵之間，憲兵元帥在他前面的座位上。他的心感到冷清，他的下巴埋在他的胸前。他在問自己有多少人知道他與大衛·雷昂的身份，並能將他與十八年前的審判聯絡起來。只有一個。</p>
<p>Rossi leapt to his feet with a muttered oath on his lips. The thing that
had flashed through his mind was impossible, and he was himself the
traitor to think of it. But even when the imagined agony had passed
away, a hard lump lay at his heart and he felt sick and ashamed.</p><p>"羅西跳起來，嘴唇上低聲發出誓言。他腦海中閃現的事情是不可能的，想到這裡，他覺得自己就是叛徒。但即使想像中的痛苦已經過去，他的心中仍有一塊硬疙瘩，使他感到惡心和羞愧。"</p>
<p>The marshal of Carabineers, who had mistaken Rossi's gesture, closed the
carriage window and stood with his back to it until the train arrived at
Milan. A police official was waiting for them there with the latest
instructions from Rome. In order to avoid the possibility of a public
disturbance in the capital on the day of the King's Jubilee, the
prisoner was to be detained in Milan until further notice.</p><p>皇家騎兵元帥誤解了羅西的手勢，關閉了馬車窗戶，並靠在它旁邊，直到火車抵達米蘭。在那裡，一個警察官員正在等待他們，他帶來了最新的羅馬指示。為了避免在國王的週年慶日引發首都的公眾騷動，這個囚犯應被扣押在米蘭，直到另行通知。</p>
<p>"Seems you're to sleep here to-night, Honourable," said the soldier.
Remembering that it had been his intention to do so when he left Zürich,
Rossi laughed bitterly.</p><p>"看來你今晚要在這裡過夜，尊貴的先生，"士兵說。羅西苦笑起來，想起當他離開蘇黎世時，他就有這個打算。</p>
<p>It was now dark. A prison van stood at the end of a line of hotel
omnibuses, and Rossi was marched to it between the measured steps of the
Carabineers. News of his arrest had already been published in Milan, and
crowds of spectators were gathered in the open space outside the
station. He tried to hold up his head when the people peered at him,
telling himself that the arrest of an innocent man was not his but the
law's disgrace; yet a sense of sickness surprised him again and he
dropped his head as he buried himself in the van.<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00484" title="379"><a id="Page_379" title="379"></a></span></p><p>現在已經黑暗了。一輛監獄車停在了一列旅館公共汽車的尾部，羅西在兩個步伐有序的卡拉賓槍手的間隙中走向了那輛車。他被捕的消息已經在米蘭公開，車站外的空地上聚集了大批觀眾。人們凝視他的時候，他試圖抬頭。他告訴自己，一個無辜者的被捕不是他的恥辱，而是法律的恥辱。然而，他再次感到一種病態的感覺，當他鑽進那輛車時，他低下了頭。</p>
<p>On the dark drive to the prison in the Via Filangeri the Carabineers
grumbled and swore at the hard fate which kept them out of Rome at a
time of public rejoicing. There was to be a dinner on Monday night at
the barracks on the Prati, and on Tuesday morning the King was to
present medals.</p><p>在前往Via Filangeri監獄的黑暗旅程中，Carabineers抱怨並咒罵著那使他們在公共慶祝時刻不能在羅馬的堅硬命運。週一晚上在Prati的軍營將有一次晚宴，週二早上國王將頒發勳章。</p>
<p>Rossi shut his eyes and said nothing. But half-an-hour later, when he
had been put in the "paying" cell, and the marshal of Carabineers was
leaving him, he could not forbear to speak.</p><p>羅西閉上眼睛一言不發。但半小時後，當他被放進了“有付費”的牢房，並且憲兵隊的元帥正在離開他時，他忍不住要說話。</p>
<p>"Officer," he said, fumbling his copy of the warrant, "would you mind
telling me where you received this paper?"</p><p>"警官，"他支吾地說，同時弄亂了拿著的逮捕令，"你能告訴我你是在哪裡收到這份文件的嗎?"</p>
<p>"At the Procura, of course," said the soldier.</p><p>"當然是在 Procura，"士兵說。</p>
<p>"Some one had denounced me there—can you tell me who it was?"</p><p>"有人在那裡告發我 - 你能告訴我那是誰嗎？"</p>
<p>"That's no business of mine, Honourable. Still, as you wish to know...."</p><p>"這不關我的事，尊敬的。不過，既然你想知道...."</p>
<p>"Well?"</p><p>"好嗎？"</p>
<p>"A lady was there when the warrant was made out, and if I had to guess
who she was...."</p><p>"當拘捕令被製作出來的時候，有一位女士在那裡，如果我必須猜測她是誰...."</p>
<p>Rossi saw the name coming in the man's face, and he flung out at him in
a roar of wrath.</p><p>羅西在那男人的臉上看到了名字，他憤怒地對他大吼並攻擊了他。</p>
<p>During the long hours of the night he tried to account for his arrest to
the exclusion of Roma. He thought of every woman whom he had known
intimately in England and America, and finally of Elena and old
Francesca. It was useless. There was only one woman in the world who
knew the secrets of his early life. He had revealed some of them
himself, and the rest she knew of her own knowledge.</p><p>在深夜的長時間裡，他試圖解釋為什麼只有他被捕，而羅馬卻被排除在外。他想起了他在英國和美國認識的每一個女性，最後是埃琳娜和老弗朗西斯卡。但這是無用的。世界上只有一個女人知道他早年生活的秘密。他自己透露了其中的一些，剩下的她根據自己的知識知道。</p>
<p>No matter! There was no traitor so treacherous as circumstance. He would
not believe the lie that fate was thrusting down his throat. Roma was
faithful, she would die rather than betray him, and he was a
contemptible hound to allow himself to think of her in that connection.
He recalled her letters, her sacrifices, her brave and cheerful
renunciation, and the hard lump that had settled at his heart rose up to
his throat.</p><p>無論如何！沒有任何背叛者比環境更加狡猾。他不敢相信命運所強加他的謊言。羅馬忠誠，她寧願死去也不會背叛他，他是一隻那麼不堪的狗，竟然讓自己將她和這種關聯聯想在一起。他回想起她的信，她的犧牲，她堅強和快樂的放棄，那顆在他心中沉澱的硬塊上升到了他的喉嚨。</p>
<p>Morning broke at last. As the grey dawn entered the cell the Easter
bells were ringing. Rossi remembered in what other conditions he had
expected to hear them, and again his heart grew bitter. A good-natured
warder came with his breakfast of bread and water, and a smuggled copy
of a morning journal called the <i>Perseveranza</i>. It contained an account
of his arrest, and a leading article on his career as a thing<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00485" title="380"><a id="Page_380" title="380"></a></span> closed
and ruined. The public would learn with astonishment that a man who had
attained to great prominence in Parliament and lived several years in
the fierce light of the world's eye, had all the time masqueraded in a
false character, being really a criminal convicted long ago for
conspiring against the person of the late King.</p><p>終於破曉了。當灰暗的黎明進入牢房時，復活節的鐘聲正在打響。羅西記起他期待聽到這些鐘聲的另一種狀況，他的心再次變得苦澀。一個善良的看守帶著他的麵包和水早餐，還有一份偷運來的早晨日報叫做Perseveranza。它記載了他的逮捕，並在領導文章中談到他的職業生涯就像一幕結束和毀壞。公眾將驚訝地得知，一個在議會中取得很大成就並在世界熾烈的目光下生活了幾年的男人，其實一直假裝是另一個人，事實上他是個多年前因密謀反對已故國王的人而被定罪的罪犯。</p>
<p>The sun shone, the sparrows chirped, the church bells rang the whole day
long. Towards evening the warder came with another newspaper, the
<i>Corriere della Sera</i>. It explained that the sensational arrest of the
illustrious Deputy, which had fallen on the country like a thunderbolt,
was not intended as punishment for an offence long past and forgotten,
but as a means of preventing a political crime that was on the eve of
being committed. The Deputy had been abroad since the unhappy riots of
the First of February, and advices from foreign police left no doubt
whatever that he had contemplated a preposterous raid of the combined
revolutionary clubs of Europe against Italy, timed with almost fiendish
imagination to break out on the festival of the King's Jubilee.</p><p>太陽閃耀，麻雀啾啾，教堂的鐘聲整天都在響。傍晚的時候，衛兵帶來了另一份報紙，《晚間郵報》。它解釋說，對該著名副手的轟動逮捕，就像閃電般突然落在國家之上，並非作為對長期過去且被忘記的犯罪的懲罰，而是作為防止即將犯下的政治罪行的手段。副手自二月一日的不幸騷亂以來一直在國外，來自外國警察的消息毫無疑問，他曾計劃將歐洲的聯合革命俱樂部對義大利的荒謬突襲，並巧妙地安排在國王的節日上。</p>
<p>Rossi slept as little on Sunday night as on the night before. The
horrible doubts which he had driven away were sucking at his heart like
a vampire. He tried to invent excuses for Roma. She was intimidated; she
was a woman and she could not help herself. Useless, and worse than
useless! "I thought the daughter of Joseph Roselli would have died
first," he told himself.</p><p>“羅西星期日晚上像前一晚一樣幾乎沒有睡覺。那些他曾經驅除的可怕疑慮就像吸血鬼一樣吮吸著他的心。他試圖為羅瑪找藉口。她被威脅了；她是女人，她無法幫助自己。無用，甚至比無用更糟！"我以為約瑟夫·羅塞利的女兒會先死，"他告訴自己。</p>
<p>The good-natured warder brought him another newspaper in the morning,
the <i>Secolo</i>, an organ of his own party. Its tone was the bitterest of
all. "We have reason to believe that the unfortunate event, which cannot
but have the effect of setting back the people's cause, is due to the
betrayal of one of their leaders by a certain fashionable woman who is
near to the person of the President of the Council. It is the old story
over again, the story of man's weakness and woman's deception, with
every familiar circumstance of humiliation, folly, and shame."</p><p>"令人善良的獄警在早上給他帶來了另一份報紙，那是他自己黨派的喉舌《世紀》。其語氣是最為苛刻的。"我們有理由相信，這一不幸事件必將對人民的事業產生倒退的效果，原因在於他們的一位領袖被一位與議會主席有密切關係的時尚女性出賣了。這又是那個老掉牙的故事，男人的軟弱與女人的欺騙，同樣熟悉的都附帶了羞辱，愚蠢和羞愧的環節。"</p>
<p>There could be no doubt of it. It was Roma who had betrayed him.
Whatever her reasons or excuse, the result was the same. She had given
up the deepest secrets of his soul, and his life's work was in the dust.</p><p>毫無疑問，背叛他的是羅馬。無論她的原因或藉口是什麼，結果都是一樣的。她揭示了他靈魂最深的秘密，他的畢生事業成了灰燼。</p>
<p>The marshal of Carabineers came to say that they were to go on to Rome,
and at nine o'clock they were again in<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00486" title="381"><a id="Page_381" title="381"></a></span> the train. People in holiday
dress were promenading the platform and the station was hung with flags.
A gentleman in a white waistcoat was about to step into the compartment
with the Carabineers and their prisoner, when, recognising his
travelling companions, he bowed and stepped back. It was the Sergeant of
the Chamber, returning after the Easter vacation from his villa on one
of the lakes. Rossi sent a ringing laugh after the man, and that brought
him back.</p><p>`憲兵司令通知他們將前往羅馬，九點鐘他們再次坐上火車。身穿節日服裝的人們在月臺上散步，車站掛滿了旗幟。一位穿白色背心的紳士正要與憲兵和他們的囚犯一起進入車廂，但是當他認出是他的旅行夥伴時，他鞠躬並退後一步。那是議會警官，他剛從他位於湖邊的別墅度過復活節假期回來。羅西對那個人發出了響亮的笑聲，這使他回來。`
</p>
<p>"I'm sorry for you, Honourable, very sorry," he said. "You've deceived
us all, but now you are seen in your true colours, and apparently
throwing off all disguise."</p><p>"我對你感到遺憾，尊敬的先生，感到非常遺憾。"他說。“你欺騙了我們所有人，但現在你的真實面目已經露出，顯然毫不掩飾。”</p>
<p>The Sergeant was so far right that Rossi was another man. Whatever had
been tender and sweet in him was now hard and bitter. The train started
for Rome, and the soldiers drew the straws out of their Tuscan cigars
and smoked. Rossi coiled himself up in his corner and shut his eyes.
Sometimes a sneer curled his lips, sometimes he laughed aloud.</p><p>`那位中士是對的，羅西已經是個全新的人。他以前的溫柔與甜蜜現在都變得堅硬與苦澀。火車啟程前往羅馬，士兵們將突斯坎雪茄的草莖拔出來抽煙。羅西在角落裡蜷縮著自己，閉上了眼睛。有時候，他的嘴唇劃過一絲冷笑，有時候他會大笑出聲。`</p>
<p>They were travelling by the coast route, and when the train ran into
Genoa a military band at the foot of the monument to Mazzini was playing
the royal hymn. But the festivities of the King's Jubilee were eclipsed
in public interest by the arrest of Rossi and the collapse of the
conspiracy which it was understood to imply. The marshal of the
Carabineers bought the local papers, and one of them was full of details
of "The Great Plot." An exact account was given from a semi-military
standpoint of the plan of the supposed raid. It included the capture of
the arsenal at Genoa and the assassination of the King at Rome.</p><p>他們沿著海岸線路旅行，當火車進入熱那亞時，馬扎尼紀念碑腳下的軍樂隊正在演奏皇家頌歌。然而，國王朱比利的慶典在公眾的興趣上被羅西的逮捕和被認為涉及的陰謀的瓦解所超越。卡拉賓尼爾斯元帥買了當地的報紙，其中一份報紙充滿了“偉大陰謀”的詳細資料。從半軍事的立場給出了據稱的襲擊計劃的準確描述。它包括對熱那亞軍火庫的佔領和在羅馬暗殺國王的行動。</p>
<p>The train ran through countless tunnels like the air through a flute,
now rumbling in the darkness, now whistling in the light. Rossi closed
his eyes and shut out the torment of passing scenes, and straightway he
was seeing Roma. He could only see her as he had always seen her, with
her golden complexion, her large violet eyes and long curved lashes, her
mouth which had its own gift of smiling, and her glow of health and
happiness. Whatever she had done he knew that he must always love her.
This worked on him like madness, and once again he leapt to his feet and
made for the corridor, whereupon the Carabineers, who had been sleeping,
got up and shut the door.</p><p>`火車如同氣息穿過笛子般不斷透過無數的隧道，時而在黑暗中轟鳴，時而在光明中吹哨。羅西閉上眼睛，關閉了這些過去的痛苦景象，他立即看到羅馬。他只能以他一直以來的方式看她，她金黃色的膚色，她大而紫色的眼睛和長曲的睫毛，她的嘴唇總有自己的微笑，以及她的健康和快樂的光芒。無論她做了什麼，他知道他必須永遠愛她。這為他帶來了瘋狂的感覺，再次他跳起來，衝向走廊，於是正在睡覺的卡拉賓兵，起身關上了門。`</p>
<p>Night fell, and the moon rose, large and blood-red as a setting sun.
When the train shot on to the Roman Campagna, like a boat gliding into
open sea, the great and solemn<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00487" title="382"><a id="Page_382" title="382"></a></span> desolation seemed more than ever
withdrawn from the sights and sounds of the living world. Rossi
remembered the joy of joys with which he had expected to cross the
familiar country. Then he looked across at the soldiers who were snoring
in their seats.</p><p>`夜幕降臨，月亮升起，像落日一般巨大而血紅。當火車駛入羅馬平原，就像一艘船滑入開放的大海，那巨大而莊嚴的荒涼感似乎比以往更加與眾生的視線和聲音隔絕。羅西回想起他曾經多麼期待穿越這片熟悉的土地的那份快樂。隨後他看向那些在座位上打呼的士兵們。`</p>
<p>When the train stopped at Civita Vecchia, the Carabineers opened the
door to the corridor that their prisoner might stretch his legs. Some
evening papers from Rome were handed into the carriage. Rossi put out
his hand to pay for them, and to his surprise it was seized with an
eager grasp. The newsman, who was also carrying a tray of coffee, was a
huge creature, with a white apron and a paper cap.</p><p>當火車停在奇維塔維基亞時，憲兵打開了通道的門，讓他們的囚犯伸伸腿。有些來自羅馬的晚報被遞進了車廂。羅西伸出手來支付報紙費用，出人意料的是，他的手被緊緊的抓住了。販賣報紙的人也帶著一罐咖啡，他是一個巨大的生物，身穿白色圍裙，頭戴紙帽。</p>
<p>"Caffé, sir? Caffé?" he called, and then in an undertone, "Don't you
know me, old fellow? Caffé, sir? Thank you."</p><p>"先生，來杯咖啡嗎？咖啡？"他叫道，然後低聲說，"你不認識我嗎，老朋友？先生，要咖啡嗎？謝謝你。"</p>
<p>It was one of Rossi's colleagues in the House of Deputies.</p><p>`這是羅西在眾議院的一位同事。`</p>
<p>"Milk, sir? With pleasure, sir. Venti centesimi, sir.... All right, old
chap. Keep your eyes open at the station at Rome.... Change, sir?
Certainly sir.... Coupé, waiting on the left side. Look alive. Addio!...
Caffé! Caffé!"</p><p>"先生，需要牛奶嗎？很高興為您服務，先生。要付二十分，先生...好的，老夥計。在羅馬的火車站保持警覺...需要找零嗎？當然，先生....轎車在左邊等著。看清楚。再見！… 咖啡！咖啡！"</p>
<p>The lusty voice died away down the platform, and the train started
again. Rossi felt giddy. He staggered back to his seat and tried to read
his evening papers.</p><p>那豐滿的聲音在月臺上漸漸消逝，火車又開始行駛了。羅西感到頭暈。他搖搖晃晃地回到座位上，試圖閱讀他的晚間報紙。</p>
<p>The <i>Sunrise</i>, the paper founded by Rossi himself, seemed to be full of
the Prime Minister. He had that day put the crown on a career of the
highest distinction; the King had conferred the Collar of the Annunziata
upon him; and in view of the continued rumblings of unrest it was even
probable that he would be made Dictator.</p><p>「羅西自創的《日出》報紙似乎充滿了首相風采。他當日對自身極其傑出的職業生涯進行了加冕；國王頒授了他安祿山項鏈；鑑於持續的騷動情況，他甚至可能被任命為獨裁者。」</p>
<p>The <i>Avanti</i> seemed to Rossi to be full of himself. When the country
recovered from the delirium of that day's ridiculous doings, it would
know how to judge of the infamous methods of a Minister who had
condescended to use the devices of a Delilah for the defeat and
confusion of a political adversary.</p><p>阿凡提對羅西來說，似乎充滿了自負。當國家從那天荒謬行為的狂熱中恢復過來時，它將會知道如何評判一位降低身份，使用得利拉的手段來擊敗和混淆政治對手的部長的惡劣手法。</p>
<p>Rossi felt as if he were suffocating. He put a hand into a side-pocket,
for his copy of the warrant crinkled there under his twitching fingers.
If he could only meet with Roma for a moment and thrust the damning
document in her face!</p><p>羅西感覺自己快要窒息了。他把手放進側口袋，因為他手中顫抖的手指下有那份傳票的摺疊聲。如果他能與羅馬見面，並把這份令人譴責的文件塞到她的面前該有多好！</p>
<p>When the train ran along the side of the Tiber, they could see a great
framework of fireworks which had been erected on the Pincio. It
represented a gigantic crown and was all ablaze. At length the train
slowed down and entered<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00488" title="383"><a id="Page_383" title="383"></a></span> the terminus at Rome. Rossi remembered how he
had expected to enter it, and he choked with wounded pride.</p><p>當火車沿著蒂伯河行駛時，他們可以看到在皮恩秋山上搭建的大型煙火架構。這些煙火呈現出一個巨大的皇冠形狀，全都在燃燒。最後，火車慢慢地進入了羅馬的終點站。羅西想起他原本期待的進站方式，他因為受傷的自尊而感到窒息。</p>
<p>There were the thumpings and clankings and the blinding flashes of white
light, and then the train stopped. The station was full of people. Rossi
noticed Malatesta among them, the man whose life he had spared in the
duel he had been compelled to fight.</p><p>有撞擊聲、金屬碰撞聲，以及刺眼的白光閃爍，然後火車停了下來。車站裡滿是人。羅西在人群中注意到了馬拉泰斯塔，他在被迫進行的決鬥中饒過了這個人的命。</p>
<p>"Now, then, please!" said the marshal of Carabineers, and Rossi stepped
down to the platform. A soldier marched on either side of him; the
marshal walked in front. The people parted to let the four men pass, and
then closed up and came after them. Not a word was spoken.</p><p>"那麼，請開始吧！"卡拉賓尼利的元帥說，羅西走下到平臺。兩個士兵在他兩邊走，元帥在前走。人群分開讓這四個人走過，然後又關上並跟在他們後面。沒有一個字被說出。</p>
<p>With pale lips and a fixed gaze which seemed to look at nobody, Rossi
walked to the end of the platform, and there the crush was greatest.</p><p>帶著蒼白的嘴唇和固定的凝視，似乎沒有看著任何人，羅西走到了平臺的盡頭，那裡的擁擠最為嚴重。</p>
<p>"Room!" cried the marshal of Carabineers, making for the gate at which a
porter was taking tickets. A black van stood outside.</p><p>"讓開！"卡拉賓尼利元帥大喊，朝著一個門口走去，一個門警正在那裡檢票。一輛黑色的貨車停在外面。</p>
<p>Suddenly the marshal was struck on the shoulder by a hand out of the
crowd. He turned to defend himself, and was struck on the other side.
Then he tried to draw a weapon, but before he could do so he was thrown
to the ground. One of the two other Carabineers stooped to lift him up,
and the third laid hold of Rossi. At the next instant Rossi felt the
soldier's hand fall from his arm as by a sword cut, and somebody was
crying in his ear:</p><p>"突然，元帥的肩膀被人群中的一隻手打中。他轉身自衛，又被打在另一邊。然後他試圖抽出武器，但在他能做到之前他被打倒在地。另外兩名憲兵中的一個彎腰把他扶起來，第三個抓住了羅西。下一瞬間，羅西感覺到士兵的手突然像被劍砍掉一樣從他的手臂上落下，有人在他的耳邊尖叫。"</p>
<p>"Now's your time, sir. Leave this to me and fly."</p><p>"現在是您的時機，先生。將此事交給我，您趕緊離開。"</p>
<p>It was Malatesta. Before Rossi fully knew what he was doing, he crossed
the lines to the opposite platform, passed through the barrier by means
of his Deputy's medal permitting him to travel on the railways, and
stepped into a coupé that stood waiting with an open door.</p><p>`這是馬拉特斯塔。 在羅西完全明白他在做什麼之前，他越過了到對面月臺的線條，透過他的副手的徽章，容許他乘坐鐵路穿過障礙，並走進一個開著門等待的車廂。`</p>
<p>"Where to, signore?"</p><p>"請問先生要去哪裡?"</p>
<p>"Piazza Navona—<i>presto</i>."</p><p>"納沃納廣場 - 快點。"</p>
<p>As the carriage rattled across the end of the Piazza Margherita a
company of Carabineers was going at quick march towards the station.</p><p>當馬車在瑪格麗特廣場的末端隆隆響動時，一群快步行進的卡拉賓射手正向車站行進。</p>
<h3 id="pgepubid00489">III</h3>
<p>At ten o'clock on Saturday night the screamers in the Piazza Navona were
crying the arrest of Rossi. The telegrams from the frontier gave an ugly
account of his capture.<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00490" title="384"><a id="Page_384" title="384"></a></span> He was in disguise, and he made an effort to
deny himself, but thanks to the astuteness of the Carabineer charged
with the warrant the device was defeated, and he was now lodged in the
prison at Milan, where it was probable that he would remain some days.</p><p>在星期六晚上十點，Piazza Navona的尖叫者們在吶喊著Rossi的逮捕。邊界的電報對他的捕獲給出了一個醜陋的報告。他假扮他人，並試圖否認自己的身份，但得益於執行逮捕令的Carabineer的精明，這種偽裝被挫敗，他現在被關在米蘭的監獄裡，有可能在那裡停留了一些天。</p>
<p>Roma's feelings took a new turn. Her crushing self-reproach at the
degradation of David Rossi, fallen, lost, and in prison, gave way to an
intense bitterness against the Baron, successful, radiant, and
triumphant. She turned a bright light upon the incidents of the past
months and saw that the Baron was responsible for everything. He had
intimidated her. His intimidation had worked upon her conscience and
driven her to the confessional. The confessional had taken her to the
Pope, and the Pope in love and loyalty and fatal good faith had led her
to denounce her husband. It was a chain of damning circumstances, helped
out by the demon of chance, but the first link had been forged by the
Baron, and he was to blame for all.</p><p>"羅馬的情感出現了新的轉折。她對於大衛·羅西的墮落、失敗和入獄的自我責罰感被對男爵的極度痛苦所取代，因為男爵成功光彩照人且趾高氣昂。她將強烈的光線投向過去幾個月的事情，發現男爵是一切的始作俑者。他曾威脅她。他的威脅作用於她的良心，驅使她去告解。告解將她帶到教皇那裡，教皇在愛與忠誠和致命的善意中引導她指責她的丈夫。這是一連串的譴責的情況，由機會的惡魔幫助，但第一個環節是由男爵鍛造的，所以他要為所有的事情負責。"</p>
<p>On Monday morning bands of music began to promenade the streets. Before
breakfast the rejoicings of the day had begun. Towards mid-day drunken
fellows in the piazza were embracing and crying, "Long live the King,"
and then "Long live the Baron Bonelli."</p><p>在星期一的早晨，樂隊開始在街上巡遊。早餐之前，當天的慶祝活動就已經開始了。到了中午，廣場上的醉漢們開始互相擁抱並大喊：“皇帝萬歲”，接著又是“邦內利男爵萬歲。”</p>
<p>Roma's disgust deepened to contempt. Why were the people rejoicing?
There was nothing to rejoice at. Why were they shouting and singing? It
was all got-up enthusiasm, all false, all a lie. By a sort of
clairvoyance, Roma could see the Baron in the midst of the scenes he had
prearranged. He was sitting in the carriage with the King and Queen,
smiling his icy smile, while the people bellowed by their side. And
meantime David Rossi was lying in prison in Milan, in a downfall worse
than death, crushed, beaten, and broken-hearted.</p><p>羅馬的厭惡深化為蔑視。為什麼人們在歡呼？沒有任何值得歡呼的事情。為什麼他們在喊叫和歌唱？這都是煽動起來的熱情，全都是虛假的，都是謊言。透過某種透視，羅馬能看到男爵在他預先安排的情景中。他與國王和王后一同坐在馬車中，面帶冷硬的微笑，而人們在他們身邊吼叫。與此同時，大衛·羅西躺在米蘭的監獄中，遭受比死亡更糟糕的命運，被摧毀，被打敗，心碎了。</p>
<p>Old Francesca brought a morning paper. It was the <i>Sunrise</i>, and it
contained nothing that did not concern the Baron. His wife had died on
Saturday—there were three lines for that incident. The King had made
him a Knight of the Order of Annunziata—there was half a column on the
new cousin to the royal family. A state dinner and ball were to be held
at the Quirinal that night, when it might be expected that the President
of the Council would be nominated Dictator.</p><p>老弗朗切斯卡帶來了一份早間的報紙。那是《日出》，報紙上的所有內容都與男爵有關。他的妻子週六去世了——對於這一事件，報紙上只用了三行字。國王已經封他為安努恩希亞塔勳章的騎士——關於這位皇家家族的新親戚，報紙用了半欄的篇幅。那晚在奎里納爾宮將舉行國宴與舞會，人們預期議會主席將被任命為獨裁者。</p>
<p>In another column of the <i>Sunrise</i> she found an interview<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00491" title="385"><a id="Page_385" title="385"></a></span> with the
Baron. The journal called for exemplary punishment on the criminals who
conspired against the sovereign and endangered the public peace; the
Baron, in guarded words, replied that the natural tendency of the King
would be to pardon such persons, where their crimes were of old date,
and their present conspiracies were averted, but it lay with the public
to say whether it was just to the throne that such lenity ought to be
encouraged.</p><p>在《日出》的另一欄中，她找到了一份與男爵的採訪。該日報呼籲對陰謀對抗國王並危害公共安全的罪犯進行典型的懲罰。男爵謹慎地回答說，國王的自然傾向會是寬恕這些犯罪行為，尤其是當他們的罪行已經長期以來，且他們當前的陰謀已經被挫敗時，但是，這取決於公眾是否認為寬恕這些罪行對王座來說是公正的，這種寬容應該得到鼓勵。</p>
<p>When Roma read this a red light seemed to flash before her eyes, and in
a moment she understood what she had to do. The Baron intended to make
the King break his promise to save the life of David Rossi, casting the
blame upon the country, to whose wish he had been forced to yield. There
was no earthly tribunal, no judge or jury, for a man who could do a
thing like that. He was putting himself beyond all human law. Therefore
one course only was left—to send him to the bar of God!</p><p>當羅馬讀到這一點時，她眼前似乎閃過一道紅光，而她在瞬間就明白了自己要做什麼。男爵打算讓國王為了拯救大衛·羅西的生命而打破他的承諾，並將責任推給被迫屈服於他願望的國家。對於能夠做出這種事的人，世界上沒有任何法庭，沒有任何法官或陪審團。他把自己置身於所有人的法律之外。因此，只剩下一條路 —— 將他送到上帝的法庭！</p>
<p>When this idea came to Roma she did not think of it as a crime. In the
moral elevation of her soul it seemed like an act of retributive
justice. Her heart throbbed violently, but it was only from the stress
of her thoughts and the intensity of her desire to execute them.</p><p>當這個想法來到羅馬時，她並未將其視為一種罪行。在她靈魂的道德昇華中，這似乎像是一種報應的正義行為。她的心劇烈地跳動著，但這只是由於她思考的壓力和執行這些思考的強烈慾望。</p>
<p>One thing troubled her, the purely material difficulties in the way. She
revolved many plans in her mind. At first she thought of writing to the
Baron asking him to see her, and hinting at submission to his will; but
she abandoned the device as a kind of duplicity that was unworthy of her
high and noble mission. At last she decided to go to the Piazza Leone
late that night and wait for the Baron's return from the Quirinal.
Felice would admit her. She would sit in the Council Room, under the
shaded lamp, until she heard the carriage wheels in the piazza. Then as
the Baron opened the door she would rise out of the red light—and do
it.</p><p>`有一件事使她困擾，那就是路上的純物質困難。她在心中反覆思考了很多計劃。起初，她想寫信給男爵，請他見她，並暗示要順服於他的意志；但是，她放棄了這種手段，因為這種手段是一種不堪於她高尚和崇高使命的虛偽。最後，她決定在那天晚上去萊昂廣場，等男爵從奎利納爾回來。費利斯會讓她進去。她會坐在理事會的房間裡，燈光昏暗，直到她聽到廣場上的馬車輪聲。然後當男爵開門的時候，她將從紅光中站起來——去做。`</p>
<p>In the drawer of a bureau she had found a revolver which Rossi had left
with her on the night he went away. His name had been inscribed on it by
the persons who sent it as a present, but Roma gave no thought to that.
Rossi was in prison, therefore beyond suspicion, and she was entirely
indifferent to detection. When she had done what she intended to do she
would give herself up. She would avow everything, seek no means of
justification, and ask for no mercy even in the presence of death. Her
only defence would be that the Baron, who was guilty, had to be sent to
the supreme<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00492" title="386"><a id="Page_386" title="386"></a></span> tribunal. It would then be for the court to take the
responsibility of fixing the moral weight of her motive in the scales of
human justice.</p><p>在一個櫃檯的抽屜裡，她發現了羅西在他離開的那晚留給她的一把左輪手槍。人們把他的名字刻在上面作為禮物，但羅瑪對此並未有任何想法。羅西在獄中，因此不存在任何懷疑，她對被抓也完全不在意。當她做完她打算做的事後，她會自首。她將全盤承認，不尋求任何辯護的手段，甚至在面對死亡時也不會尋求憐憫。她唯一的辯護就是罪有應得的男爵必須送往最高法庭。然後由法庭來負責釐定她動機的道德重量在人類正義的天平上的位置。</p>
<p>With these sublime feelings she began to examine the revolver. She
remembered that when Rossi had given it to her she had recoiled from the
touch of the deadly weapon, and it had fallen out of her fingers. No
such fear came to her now, as she turned it over in her delicate hands
and tried to understand its mechanism. There were six chambers, and to
know if they were loaded she pulled the trigger. The vibration and the
deafening noise shook but did not frighten her.</p><p>她帶著這種崇高的感情開始檢查那把手槍。她記得當羅西把它給她的時候，她因為害怕那致命的武器而退縮，手槍就從她的手指間滑落。然而現在，當她以纖細的手翻轉它並試圖理解它的機制時，她沒有感到任何的恐懼。這把槍有六個子彈槽，為了知道它們是否已裝子彈，她扣動了扳機。震動和震耳欲聾的聲音把她嚇得一身冷汗，但並未使她害怕。</p>
<p>The deaf old woman had heard the shot, and she came upstairs panting and
with a pallid face.</p><p>那位耳聾的老婦人聽到了槍聲，她氣喘吁吁地，臉色蒼白的跑上樓來。</p>
<p>"Mercy, Signora! What's happened? The Blessed Virgin save us! A
revolver!"</p><p>"慈悲，夫人！發生了什麼事？ 聖母救我們！這是一把左輪手槍！"</p>
<p>Roma tried to speak with unconcern. It was Mr. Rossi's revolver. She had
found it in the bureau. It must be loaded—it had gone off.</p><p>`羅馬試圖無動於衷地說話。這是羅西先生的左輪手槍。她在櫃子中找到的。它必須是裝有子彈的——它已經走火了。`</p>
<p>The words were vague, but the tone quieted the old woman. "Thank the
saints it's nothing worse. But why are you so pale, Signora? What is the
matter with you?"</p><p>這些話語含糊不清，但語調讓老婦人安靜下來。"感謝聖人，情況沒有更糟糕。但是你為什麼這麼蒼白，夫人？你怎麼了？”</p>
<p>Roma averted her eyes. "Wouldn't you be pale too if a thing like this
had gone off in your hands?"</p><p>"羅馬低下了她的視線。"如果像這樣的事情在你的手中發生，你也會變得蒼白無力吧?"</p>
<p>By this time the Garibaldian had hobbled up behind his wife, and when
all was explained the old people announced that they were going out to
see the illuminations on the Pincio.</p><p>`這時，加里波第人已經跛行在他的妻子背後，當所有的事情都得到解釋後，老人們宣佈他們要出去看皮恩喬的燈光秀。`</p>
<p>"They begin at eleven o'clock and go on to twelve or one, Signora.
Everybody in the house has gone already, or the shot would have made a
fine sensation."</p><p>"他們通常在十一點開始，一直到十二點或一點，夫人。這家裡的每個人都已經走了，否則那一槍會引起很大的轟動。"</p>
<p>"Good-night, Tommaso! Good-night, Francesca!"</p><p>"晚安，Tommaso！晚安，Francesca！"</p>
<p>"Good-night, Signora. We'll have to leave the street door open for the
lodgers coming back, but you'll close your own door and be as safe as
sardines."</p><p>"晚安，夫人。我們必須為回來的房客留開大門，但您將關上自己的門，就像沙丁魚一樣安全。"</p>
<p>The Garibaldian raised his pork-pie hat and left the door ajar. It was
half-past ten and the <i>piazza</i> was very quiet. Roma sat down to write a
letter.</p><p>該加里波第義工提起他的豬肉餡餅帽，並將門掩上。時鐘指向十點半，廣場非常安靜。羅馬坐下來寫信。</p>
<p style="padding-top:.5em">"Dearest," she wrote, "I have read in the newspapers what took place on
the frontier and I am overwhelmed with grief. What can I say of my own
share in it except that I did it for the best? From my soul and before
God, I tell you that if I betrayed you it was only to save your life.
And though my heart is breaking and I shall never know another<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00493" title="387"><a id="Page_387" title="387"></a></span> happy
hour until God gives me release, if I had to go through it all again I
should have to do as I have done....</p><p style="padding-top:.5em">"親愛的，"她寫道，"我從報紙上讀到了前線發生的事情，我感到心如刀割。對於我在其中的角色，我能說什麼呢?除了我是為了最好的結果。我從我的靈魂和在上帝面前告訴你，如果我背叛了你，那只是為了拯救你的生命。雖然我的心正在破碎，我再也不會有快樂的時光，直到上帝給我釋放。即使我必須再次經歷這一切，我還是該做我已經做過的事情...."</p>
<p>"Perhaps your great heart will be able to forgive me some day, but I
shall never forgive myself or the man who compelled me to do what I have
done. Before this letter reaches you in Milan a great act will be done
in Rome. But you must know nothing more about it until it is done.</p><p>"或許有一天，你寬大的心能夠原諒我，但我永遠不會原諒我自己，也不會原諒那個逼迫我做了我所做的事情的人。在這封信到達你在米蘭的地方之前，羅馬將會完成一項重大的行動。但在這件事完成之前，你必須對此一無所知。"</p>
<p>"Good-bye, dearest. Try to forgive me as soon as you can. I shall know
it if you do ... where I am going to—eventually ... and it will be so
sweet and beautiful. Your loving, erring, broken-hearted</p><p>"再見了，我最親愛的。請儘快原諒我。我將知道你已經原諒我...在我即將去的地方...那將會如此甜美和美麗。你的愛人，犯錯的人，心碎的人"</p>
<p style="text-align:right; margin-top:-1em; padding-bottom:.5em;"><span class="smcap">Roma</span>."</p><p style="text-align:right; margin-top:-1em; padding-bottom:.5em;">羅馬</p>
<p>A noisy group of revellers were passing through the piazza singing a
drinking song. When they were gone a church clock struck eleven. Roma
put on a hat and a veil. Her impatience was now intense. Being ready to
go out she took a last look round the rooms. They brought a throng of
memories—of hopes and visions as well as realities and facts. The
piano, the phonograph, the bust, the bed. It was all over. She knew she
would never come back.</p><p>一群喧鬧的歡樂者正在廣場上穿行，唱著飲酒歌。當他們走後，教堂的鐘敲響了十一點。羅馬戴上了一頂帽子和一塊面紗。她現在的不耐病急。準備出去後，她最後看了一眼這些房間。它們帶來了一大群回憶，包括希望和願景以及現實和事實。鋼琴，留聲機，半身像，床。一切都結束了。她知道，她永遠不會再回來。</p>
<p>Her heart was throbbing violently, and she was opening the bureau a
second time when her ear caught the sound of a step on the stairs. She
knew the step. It was the Baron's.</p><p>`她的心猛烈地跳動著，她正要第二次打開抽屜，耳邊卻聽到了樓梯上的腳步聲。她認得出這個腳步聲。那是男爵的。`</p>
<p>She stopped, with an indescribable sense of terror, and gazed at the
door. It stood partly open as the Garibaldian had left it.</p><p>她停下來，帶著無法形容的恐懼感，凝視著門。門半開著，就像加里波第離開時一樣。</p>
<p>Through the door the Baron was about to enter. He was coming up, up,
up—to his death. Some supernatural power was sending him.</p><p>`透過門，男爵正要進入。他正在上來，上來，上來 - 走向他的死亡。有某種超自然的力量在送他。`</p>
<p>She grew dizzy and quaked in every limb. Still the step outside came on.
At length it reached the top, and there was a knock at the door. At
first she could not answer, and the knock was repeated.</p><p>她覺得頭暈，全身每一個肢體都在顫抖。然而，外面的腳步聲仍在接近。
最後，腳步聲到達了頂部，門外傳來了敲門聲。起初她無法回答，敲門聲重複了起來。</p>
<p>Then the free use of her faculties came back to her. There was more of
the Almighty in all this than of her own design. It <i>was</i> to be. God
intended her to kill this guilty man.</p><p>於是，她自由地運用了自己的能力。這一切都包含著更多的全能者的意志，而非屬於她自己的設計。這是命中註定的。上帝希望她去殺掉這個有罪的人。</p>
<p>"Come in!" she cried.</p><p>"請進來!"她叫道。</p>
<h3 id="pgepubid00494">IV</h3>
<p>When the Baron awoke on Saturday he remembered Roma with a good deal of
self-reproach, and everything that happened during the following days
made him think<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00495" title="388"><a id="Page_388" title="388"></a></span> of her with tenderness. During the morning an
aide-de-camp brought him the casket containing the Collar of the
Annunziata, and spoke a formal speech. He fingered the jewelled band and
golden pendant as he made the answer prescribed by etiquette, but he was
thinking of Roma and the joy she might have felt in hailing him cousin
of the King.</p><p>當男爵在週六醒來時，他對羅馬感到非常的自責，接下來的幾天裡，他對羅馬的思念充滿了溫柔。早上，一位副官將裝有安祿山項鏈的首飾盒帶給他，並致以正式的演講。他在按照禮儀做出回答時挑選著鑲滿寶石的項帶和金色掛飾，但他心裡想的是羅馬，以及她可能對於他被譽為國王的表親而感到的喜悅。</p>
<p>Towards noon he received the telegram which announced the death of his
maniac wife, and he set off instantly for his castle in the Alban Hills.
He remained long enough to see the body removed to the church, and then
returned to Rome. Nazzareno carried to the station the little hand-bag
full of despatches with which he had occupied the hour spent in the
train. They passed by the tree which had been planted on the first of
Roma's Roman birthdays. It was covered with white roses. The Baron
plucked one of them, and wore it in his button-hole on the return
journey.</p><p>"到了中午，他收到了告知他瘋狂妻子死亡的電報，他立即離開前往他在阿爾巴尼山上的城堡。他在那裡停留了足夠長的時間看到屍體被移至教堂，然後返回了羅馬。納扎雷諾把充滿電報的小手提袋帶到車站，這些是他在火車上度過的一小時中使用的。他們經過了在羅馬的第一個生日種植的樹。樹上覆蓋著白色的玫瑰。男爵摘下了其中的一朵，在歸程中戴在紐扣孔上。"
</p>
<p>Before midnight he was back in the Piazza Leone, where the Commendatore
Angelelli was waiting with news of the arrest of Rossi. He gave orders
to have the editor of the <i>Sunrise</i> sent to him so that he might make a
tentative suggestion. But in spite of himself his satisfaction at
Rossi's complete collapse and possible extermination was disturbed by
pity for Roma.</p><p>在午夜之前，他回到了利昂廣場，那裡的安傑萊利司令官正在等待他，告訴他羅西被逮捕的訊息。他下令將《日出》的編輯送給他，以便他可以做出一個嘗試性的建議。但是儘管他盡力而為，他對羅西徹底崩潰和可能被根除的滿足感還是被對羅馬的憐憫所干擾。</p>
<p>Sunday was given up to the interview with the journalist, the last
preparations for the Jubilee, and various secular duties. Monday's
ceremonials began with the Mass. The Piazza of the Pantheon was lined
with a splendid array of soldiers in glistening breastplates and
helmets, a tall bodyguard through which the little King passed to his
place amid the playing of the national hymn. In the old Pantheon itself,
roofed with an awning of white silk which bore the royal arms, flares
were burning up to the topmost cornice of the round walls. A temporary
altar decorated in white and gold was ablaze with candles, and the
choir, conducted by a fashionable composer of opera, were in a golden
cage. The King and Queen and royal princes sat in chairs under a velvet
canopy, and there were tribunes for cabinet ministers, senators,
deputies, and foreign ambassadors. Religion was necessary to all state
functions, and the Mass was a magnificent political demonstration
carried out on lines arranged by the Baron himself. He had forgotten
God, but he had remembered the King, and he had thought of Roma<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00496" title="389"><a id="Page_389" title="389"></a></span> also.
She wept at all religious ceremonies, and would have shed tears if she
had been present at this one.</p><p>`週日被用來接受記者的採訪，為慶祝活動做最後的準備，並處理各種世俗的職責。週一的儀式始於彌撒。萬神廟的廣場上排列著盛裝的士兵，他們身穿閃亮的胸甲和頭盔，組成了高大的衛隊，小國王穿過他們，伴隨著國歌的演奏，來到他的位置。在古老的萬神廟內部，其頂部覆蓋著繡有皇室徽章的白色絲綢帆布，火光一直燒到圓形牆壁的頂部裝飾線。一個暫時的祭壇用白色和金色裝飾，燭光閃爍，由一位時髦的歌劇作曲家指揮的合唱團在金色的籠中。國王和王后以及王子都坐在絲絨庇護下的椅子上，內閣部長、參議員、代表和外國大使也有自己的席位。宗教對所有國家功能都是必要的，並且彌撒是一場壯觀的政治示威，依照男爵自己安排的方式來進行。他已經忘記了上帝，但他記得國王，他也想到了羅馬。她在所有宗教儀式上都會哭泣，如果她也在這一場儀式中，肯定也會流淚。`</p>
<p>From the Pantheon they passed to the Capitol, amid the playing of bands
of music which showered through the streets their hail of sound. The
magnificent hall was crowded by a brilliant company in silk dresses and
decorations. An address was read by the Mayor, reciting the early
misfortunes of Italy, and closing with allusions to the prosperity of
the nation under the reigning dynasty. In his reply the King extolled
the army as the hope of peace and unity, and ended with a eulogy of the
President of the Council, whose powerful policy had dispelled the
vaporous dreams of unpractical politicians who were threatening the
stability of the throne and the welfare of its loyal subjects.</p><p>他們從萬神廟通向國會山，樂隊的音樂絢爛地在街道上飄揚。華麗的大廳內擠滿了身穿絲綢禮服，身掛勛章的燦爛群眾。市長宣讀了演講稿，敘述了義大利早期的不幸，並以對現今王朝下國家繁榮的言辭結束。在他的回應中，國王讚美了軍隊是和平與統一的希望，並以對議會主席的讚揚做為結束，他的強大政策消散了那些威脅王位穩定和忠誠臣民福祉的不切實際的政客的空洞夢想。</p>
<p>The Baron answered briefly that he had done no more than his duty to his
King, who was almost a republican monarch, and to his country, which was
the freest in the world. As for the visionaries and their visions, a few
refugees in Zürich, cheered on by the rabble abroad, might dream of
constructing a universal republic out of the various nations and races,
with Rome as their capital, but these were the delirious dreams of weak
minds.</p><p>男爵簡短地回答說，他只不過在對他的國王，幾乎是共和國領袖的職責，以及他的國家，這是世界上最自由的國家。至於那些有遠見的人和他們的想法，一些在蘇黎世的難民，在國外的暴民的鼓動下，可能夢想著從各種國家和種族中建立一個以羅馬為首都的普世共和國，但這些都是弱者頭腦中的發狂夢想。</p>
<p>"Dangerous!" said the Baron, with a smile. "To think of the eternal
dreamer being dangerous!"</p><p>"危險!"男爵帶著微笑說。"想到那個永恆的夢想家竟然會危險!"</p>
<p>The King laughed, the senators cheered, the ladies waved their
handkerchiefs, and again the Baron remembered Roma.</p><p>國王大笑，參議員歡呼，女士們揮動著她們的手帕，而男爵再次想起了羅馬。</p>
<p>The procession to the Quirinal was a prolonged triumph. Every house was
hung with flags, every window with red and yellow damask. The clubs in
the Corso were crowded with princes, nobles, diplomats, and
distinguished foreigners. Civil guards by hundreds in their purple
plumes lined the streets, and the pavements were packed with loyal
people. It was a glorious pageant, such as Roma loved.</p><p>前往奎里納爾的遊行活動是一場持續的勝利慶典。每一棟房子都飾有旗幟，每一扇窗都掛上紅色和黃色的錦緞。科爾索街上的俱樂部擠滿了各地的王親、貴族、外交官以及各國名流。數百名飾以紫色羽毛的市民護衛隊排列在街道旁，路邊則擠滿了忠誠的民眾。這是一場盛大的遊行，猶如羅馬所愛。</p>
<p>The mayors of the province, followed by citizens under their appointed
leaders and flags, came up to the Quirinal as the Baron had appointed,
and called the King on to the balcony. The King accepted the call and
made a sign of thanks.</p><p>`各省市長，帶著他們的領隊和旗幟，跟隨著公民來到了奎利諾，正如男爵所指示的那樣，並呼喚國王走上陽臺。國王接受了呼喚並表示感謝。`</p>
<p>Returning to the house the King ordered that papers should be prepared
immediately creating the Baron Bonelli by royal decree Dictator of Italy
for a period of six months from that date. "If Roma were here now,"
thought the Baron.<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00497" title="390"><a id="Page_390" title="390"></a></span></p><p>`回到家中，國王立即下令準備文件，透過皇家法令任命巴羅內利男爵為義大利獨裁者，任期為自當日起的六個月。"如果羅馬現在在這裡，"男爵想到。`</p>
<p>Then night came, and the state dinner at the royal palace was a moving
scene of enchantment. One princess came after another, apparently
clothed in diamonds. The Baron wore the Collar of the Annunziata, and
the foreign ambassadors, who as representatives of their sovereigns were
entitled to precedence, gave place to him, and he sat on the right of
the Queen.</p><p>然後，夜晚降臨，皇宮的國宴成為一個動人的魔幻場景。一位位公主相繼登場，似乎身披鑽石。男爵戴著聖母領報勳章，而身為各國元首代表的外交使節，他們享有優先權，讓位給他，他坐在皇后的右邊。</p>
<p>After dinner he led the Queen to an embroidered throne under a velvet
baldachino in a gorgeous chamber which had been the chapel of the Popes.
Then the ball began. What torrents of light! What a dazzling blaze of
diamonds! What lovely faces and pure white skins! What soft bosoms and
full round forms! What gleams of life and love in a hundred pairs of
beautiful eyes! But there was a lovelier face and form in the mind of
the Baron than any his eyes could see, and excusing himself to the King
on the ground of Rossi's expected arrival, he left the palace.</p><p>晚餐後，他帶領女王走向一個繡花的寶座，寶座位於華麗的房間裡，這原本是教皇的私人禮拜堂。接著舞會開始。什麼強烈的光照！什麼閃閃發光的鑽石！什麼美麗的面孔和純白的皮膚！什麼柔軟的胸部和充滿勁道的身材！在上百雙美麗的雙眸裡，有什麼生命和愛情的閃爍！但在男爵的心裡，有一個比他眼睛能看到的任何面孔和身材更可愛的形象，因為期待羅西的到來，他以此為理由向國王請假，離開了宮殿。</p>
<p>Fireflies in the dark garden of the Quirinal were emitting drops of
light as the Baron passed through the echoing courts, and the big square
in front, bright with electric light, was silent save for the footfall
of the sentries at the gate.</p><p>在奎利納爾黑暗的花園中，螢火蟲正在散發光滴，當男爵穿過回聲的庭院時，前面的大廣場上充滿了電燈的光亮，除了大門處哨兵的腳步聲外，一切都保持著安靜。</p>
<p>The Baron walked in the direction of the Piazza Navona. His
self-reproach was becoming poignant. He remembered the threats he had
made, and told himself he had never intended to carry them out. They
were only meant to impress the imagination of the person played upon, as
might happen in any ordinary affair of public life.</p><p>男爵朝著納沃納廣場的方向走去。他的自我責備變得蕭瑟。他記起了自己曾經的威脅，告訴自己他從未打算真的去落實。那些只是想要對對方產生影響，就像在公共生活的任何普通事件中可能會發生的那樣。</p>
<p>The Baron's memory went back to the last state ball before this one, and
he felt some pangs of shame. But the disaster of that night had not been
due to the cold calculation to which he had attributed it. The cause was
simpler and more human—love of a beautiful woman who was slipping away
from him, the girding sense of being bound body and soul to a wife that
was no wife, and the mad intoxication of a moment.</p><p>男爵的記憶回到了這次州級舞會前的最後一次，他感到一些羞愧之情。但那個晚上的災難並不是因為他之前所認為的冷酷計算。原因更為簡單而且更為人性化──對一個正在悄然消逝的美麗女性的熱愛，對被身心繫於一個名義上的妻子的束縛感，以及那一刻的瘋狂沉醉。</p>
<p>No matter! Roma should not lose by what had happened. He would make it
up to her. Considering her unconventional conduct, it was no little
thing he intended to do, but he would do it, and she would see that
others were capable of sacrifice.</p><p>`無論如何！羅馬不應該因為所發生的事情而損失。他將彌補她。考慮到她的非常規行為，他打算做的事情絕非小事，但他將做到，她會看到其他人也能夠犧牲。`</p>
<p>The people were on the Pincio and the streets were quiet. When the Baron
reached the Piazza Navona there was<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00498" title="391"><a id="Page_391" title="391"></a></span> hardly anybody about, and he had
difficulty in finding the house. No one saw him enter, and he met with
nobody on the stairs. So much the better. He was half ashamed.</p><p>人們都聚集在皮恩秋，街上非常安靜。當男爵到達納沃納廣場時，幾乎沒有人在外面，他很難找到那個房子。沒有人看到他進去，他在樓梯上也沒有遇到任何人。這是最好的。他有點羞愧。</p>
<p>After he had knocked twice a voice which he did not recognise told him
to come in. When he pushed the door open Roma, in hat and veil, stood
before him, with her back to a bureau. He thought she looked frightened
and ill.</p><p>`他敲了兩次門後，一個他不認識的聲音讓他進來。當他推開門時，羅馬，戴著帽子和面紗，背對著一個辦公櫃站在他面前。他認為她看起來受驚並且不舒服。`</p>
<h3 id="pgepubid00499">V</h3>
<p>"My dear Roma," said the Baron, "I bring you good news. Everything has
turned out well. Nothing could have been managed better, and I come to
congratulate you."</p><p>"親愛的羅馬，"男爵說，"我帶來了好消息。一切都處理得很好。沒有更好的方法來處理，我來向你表示祝賀。"</p>
<p>He was visibly excited, and spoke rapidly and even loudly.</p><p>他明顯顯得很興奮，說話速度快且聲音大。</p>
<p>"The man was arrested on the frontier—you must have heard of that. He
was coming by the night train on Saturday, and to prevent a possible
disturbance they kept him in Milan until this morning."</p><p>"那個男人在邊境被逮捕-你一定聽說過。他是在週六的夜裡乘火車過來的，為了防止可能的騷亂，他們將他留在米蘭直到今天早上。"</p>
<p>Roma continued to stand with her back to the bureau.</p><p>"羅馬繼續背對著櫃子立著。"</p>
<p>"The news was in all the journals yesterday, my dear, and it had a
splendid effect on the opening of the Jubilee. When the King went to
Mass this morning the plot had received its death-blow, and our anxiety
was at an end. To-night the man will arrive in Rome, and within an hour
from now he will be safely locked up in prison."</p><p>"昨天所有的報紙上都刊登了這則消息，親愛的，它對朝聖年開幕產生了極好的影響。今天早上國王去做彌撒時，陰謀已經獲得了致命打擊，我們的焦慮也隨之結束。今晚那個人將會到達羅馬，從現在起不到一個小時，他將被安全地關進監獄。"</p>
<p>Every nerve in Roma's body was palpitating, but she did not attempt to
speak.</p><p>"羅馬的每一個神經都在跳動，但她並未試圖說話。"</p>
<p>"It is all your doing, my child—yours, not mine. Your clever brain has
brought it all to pass. 'Leave the man to me,' you said. I left him to
you, and you have accomplished everything."</p><p>"這全是你的功勞，我的孩子——是你的，不是我的。你聰明的腦袋讓一切成真。'把那個人交給我，'你說。我把他交給你，而你已經完成了一切。"</p>
<p>Roma drew her lips together and tried to control herself.</p><p>"羅馬緊緊閉上嘴唇，試圖控制自己的情緒。"</p>
<p>"But what things you have gone through in order to achieve your purpose!
Slights, slurs, insults! No wonder the man was taken in by it. Society
itself was taken in. And I—yes, I myself—was almost deceived."</p><p>"但你為了達成目標所經歷的一切！侮辱，毀謗，羞辱！難怪那人會被它左右。社會本身就被欺騙了。而我-是的，我自己-幾乎也被欺騙了。"</p>
<p>"Shall it be now?" thought Roma. The Baron was on the hearthrug
directly facing her.</p><p>"現在該是時候了嗎？" 羅馬在心裡思考。男爵正站在她對面的壁爐地毯上。</p>
<p>"But you knew what you were doing, my dear. It was all a part of your
scheme. You drew the man on. In due time he delivered himself up to you.
He surrendered every secret of his soul. And when your great hour came
you<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00500" title="392"><a id="Page_392" title="392"></a></span> were ready. You met it as you had always intended. 'At the top of
his hopes he shall fall,' you said."</p><p>"但你知道自己在做什麼，我的親愛的。這都是你計劃的一部分。你引誘了那個男人。到了適當的時候，他將自己交給你。他交出了自己靈魂的每一個秘密。而當你的大時刻來臨時，你已經準備好了。你按照一直以來的打算來面對它。'在他的希望之巔，他將墮落，'你說。"</p>
<p>Roma's heart was beating as if it would burst its bounds.</p><p>"羅馬的心跳得好像要爆出來一樣。"</p>
<p>"He <i>has</i> fallen. Thanks to you, this enemy of civil society, this
slanderer of women, is down. Then the Pope too! And the confession to
the Reverend Father! Who but a woman could have thought of a thing like
that?—-making your denunciation so defensible, so pardonable, so
plausible, so inevitable! What skill! What patience! What diplomacy! And
what will and nerve too! Who shall say now that women are incapable of
great things?"</p><p>"他已經倒下了。多虧了你，這個文明社會的敵人，這個誹謗女性的人已經倒下了。連教皇也是如此！並且向尊敬的父親懺悔！除了女人，誰能想到這樣的事情？讓你的誣告如此有力，如此可原諒，如此合理，如此必然！什麼技巧！什麼耐心！什麼外交手腕！還有什麼決心和神經！現在誰敢說女性無法做出偉大的事情？"</p>
<p>The Baron had thrown open his overcoat, revealing the broad expanse of
his shirt-front, crossed by the glittering collar of the Annunziata, and
was promenading the hearthrug without a thought of his peril.</p><p>男爵開啟了他的大衣，露出了其襯衫前寬大的範圍，由閃亮的Annunziata項鍊交叉，並在爐邊地毯上漫無目的地走動，卻不考慮他的危險。</p>
<p>"The journals of half Europe will have accounts of the failure of the
'Great Plot.' There was another plot, my dear, which did not fail.
Europe will hear of that also, and by to-morrow morning the world will
know what a woman may do to punish the man who traduces and degrades
her!"</p><p>"整個歐洲的媒體將報導'大陰謀'的失敗。親愛的，還有另外一個陰謀並未失敗。歐洲也將聽到關於這個陰謀的事情，到了明天早上，全世界將會知道一個被男人中傷和貶低的女人可能如何去懲罰他！"</p>
<p>"Why don't I do it?" thought Roma. She was fingering the revolver on the
bureau behind her, and breathing fast and audibly.</p><p>"為什麼我不去做呢？"羅馬這樣想。她在後面的櫃子上摸著手槍，呼吸急促且聽得見。</p>
<p>"You shall have everything back, my dear. Carriages, jewellery,
apartments, exactly as you parted with them. I have kept all under my
own control, and in a single day you can be reinstated."</p><p>"你將得到所有的東西回來，我的親愛的。馬車，珠寶，公寓，完全如你分開他們一樣。我已經將所有的東西都放在我自己的控制之下，只需要一天你就可以恢復原狀。"</p>
<p>Roma's palpitating heart was hurting her.</p><p>`羅馬的心臟疼痛地跳動著，讓她感到難受。`</p>
<p>"But won't you sit down, my child? I have something to tell you. It is
important news. The Baroness is dead. Yes, she died on Saturday, poor
soul. Should I play the hypocrite and weep? Why should I? For fifteen
years a cruel law, which I dare not attempt to repeal by divorce in a
Catholic country, has tied me to a living corpse. Shall I pretend to
mourn because my burden has fallen away?... Roma, sit down, my dear;
don't continue to stand there.... Roma, I am free, and we can now carry
out our marriage, as we always hoped and intended."</p><p>「但是，我的孩子，你不坐下嗎？我有些事要告訴你。這是重要的消息。男爵夫人過世了。是的，她在週六去世了，可憐的靈魂。我應該裝做偽君子而哭泣嗎？我為什麼要這樣做呢？在一個天主教國家，我不敢嘗試為了拋棄這個活著的屍體而去尋求離婚，這樣的殘忍法律已經將我束縛了十五年。我該假裝哀悼，因為我的負擔已經消失了嗎？...羅馬，我親愛的，坐下來；不要繼續站在那裡.... 羅馬，我現在自由了，我們現在可以如我們一直希望和打算的那樣去結婚了。」</p>
<p>"Now!" thought Roma, moving a little forward.</p><p>"現在！" 羅馬想著，稍微向前移動了一點。</p>
<p>"Ah, don't be afraid of anything. I am not afraid, and you needn't be
afraid either. Certainly rumour has coupled our names already. But what
matter about that? No one shall insult you, whatever has occurred.
Wherever I go you<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00501" title="393"><a id="Page_393" title="393"></a></span> shall go too. If they cannot do without me they shall
not do without you, and in spite of everything you shall be received
everywhere."</p><p>"啊，別害怕任何事情。我並不害怕，你也不用害怕。確實，謠言已經將我們的名字連在一起。但那又如何呢？無論發生什麼，都不會有人侮辱你。無論我去哪裡，你也將跟我一起去。如果他們不能沒有我，那他們就不能沒有你，儘管一切，你將被接納在任何地方。"</p>
<p>"Is that all you had to say?" said Roma.</p><p>"你就只有這麼多話要說嗎？"Roma說。</p>
<p>"Not all. There is something else, and I couldn't wait for the
newspapers to tell you. The King has appointed me Dictator for six
months. That means that you will be more courted than the Queen. What a
revenge! The women who have been turning their backs upon you will bend
their backs before you. You will break down every barrier. You will...."</p><p>"並不全是。還有些別的事，我不能等待報紙慢慢告訴你。國王已經任命我為六個月的獨裁者。這意味著你將比皇后還要受到追捧。多麼的一種報復啊！那些曾經背對你的女性將在你面前彎下她們的背。你將打破所有障礙。你將會......"</p>
<p>"Wait," said Roma.</p><p>"等一下," Roma說。</p>
<p>The Baron had been approaching her, and she lifted her hand.</p><p>男爵一直在接近她，她舉起了手。</p>
<p>"You expect me to acquiesce in this lie?"</p><p>"你期待我會默許這個謊言嗎？"</p>
<p>"What lie, my child?"</p><p>"我的孩子，什麼謊言？"</p>
<p>"That I denounced David Rossi in order to destroy him. It is true that I
did denounce him—unhappy woman that I am—but you know perfectly why I
did it. I did it because I was forced to do it. <i>You</i> forced me."</p><p>"我污衊大衛·羅西是為了摧毀他。我確實污衊了他 - 我這個不幸的女人 - 但你完全知道我為什麼這樣做。我這樣做是因為我被迫這樣做。是你逼的我。"</p>
<p>At the sound of her own voice, her eyes had begun to fill.</p><p>當她聽到自己的聲音，她的眼睛開始充滿淚水。</p>
<p>"And now you ask me to pretend that it was all done from an evil motive,
and you offer me the rewards of guilt. Do you think I'm a murderer that
you can offer me the price of blood? Have you any shame? You come here
to ask me to marry you, knowing that I am married already—here of all
places, in the house of my husband."</p><p>"你現在要我假裝這一切都出於邪惡的動機，並向我提供罪行的報酬。你認為我是殺人犯，可以向我提供血的代價嗎？你還有羞恥之心嗎？你來到這裡，要求我嫁給你，明知我已經結婚了 - 尤其在這裡，我丈夫的房子裡。"</p>
<p>Her eyes were blinded with tears, but her voice thickened with anger.</p><p>她的眼睛因淚水而模糊，但她的聲音卻因憤怒而變得沉悶。</p>
<p>"My child," said the Baron, "if I have asked you to acquiesce in the
idea that what you did was from a certain motive it was only to spare
you pain. I thought it would be easier for you to do so now, things
being as they are. It was only going back to your original purpose,
forgetting all that has intervened."</p><p>"我的孩子,"男爵說, "如果我讓你接受這個想法，即你所做的都是出於某種動機，那只是為了減少你的痛苦。我以為現在這樣做對你來說會更容易，事情現在就是這樣。那只是回到你最初的目的，忘記所有事情的干擾。"</p>
<p>His voice softened, and he said in a low tone: "If <i>I</i> am so much to
blame for what has been done, perhaps it was because you were first of
all at fault! At the beginning my one offence consisted in agreeing to
your proposal. It was the <i>statesman</i> who committed that error, and the
<i>man</i> has suffered for it ever since. You know nothing of jealousy, my
child—how can you?—but its pains are as the pains of hell."</p><p>他的聲音變得更為輕柔，並低聲說：“如果我因為所作所為而受到如此多的責備，那也許是因為你首先有錯！起初，我的唯一過錯就是同意你的提議。那是政治家犯下的錯誤，而且此後的男人一直為此受苦。你對嫉妒一無所知，我的孩子——你怎麼會知道呢？——但嫉妒的痛苦就像地獄的痛苦一樣。”</p>
<p>He tried to approach her once more.</p><p>他再次嘗試接近她。</p>
<p>"Come, dear, try to be yourself again. Forget this moment<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00502" title="394"><a id="Page_394" title="394"></a></span> of
fascination, and rise afresh to your old strength and wisdom. I am
willing to forget ... whatever has happened—I don't ask what. I am
ready to wipe it all away, just as if it had never been."</p><p>"來，親愛的，試著回復自我。忘記這刻的迷戀，重新找回你昔日的力量與智慧。我願意忘記...發生過的任何事——我不問是什麼。我準備把它全部抹去，就像它從未發生過一樣。"</p>
<p>In spite of his soft words and gentle tones, Roma was gazing at him with
an aversion she had never felt before for any human being.</p><p>儘管他的話語溫和，聲音悅耳，羅瑪卻以她從未對任何人有過的厭惡眼神看著他。</p>
<p>"Have no qualms about your marriage, my child. I assure you it is no
marriage at all. In the eye of the civil law it is frankly invalid, and
the Church could annul it at any moment, being no sacrament, because you
are unbaptized and therefore not in her sense a Christian."</p><p>"對於你的婚姻，我的孩子，不要有任何疑慮。我向你保證，這根本不算是婚姻。在民事法眼中，它坦率地說是無效的，而教會能夠隨時宣告它無效，因為你尚未接受洗禮，因此在她看來並不是一個基督徒。"</p>
<p>He took another step towards her and said:</p><p>他向她再走了一步，然後說：</p>
<p>"But if you have lost one husband another is waiting for you—a more
devoted and more faithful husband—one who can give you everything in
the place of one who can give you nothing.... And then that man has gone
out of your life for good. Whatever happens now, it is impossible that
you and he can ever come together again. But I am here still.... Don't
answer hastily, Roma. Isn't it something that I am ready to face the
opprobrium that will surely come of marrying the most criticised woman
in Rome?"</p><p>"但是如果你喪失了一個丈夫，另一個正在等待你 - 一個更忠誠更忠實的丈夫 - 一個能在你失去的人無法給你的地方給你一切的人.... 然後，那個男人已經永遠的走出了你的生活。無論現在發生什麼，你和他再也無法走到一起。但我還在這裡....別急忙回答，羅馬。我願意面對娶了羅馬最受人批評的女性而必然的恥辱，這難道不算是一種付出嗎？"</p>
<p>Roma felt herself to be suffocating with indignation and shame.</p><p>"羅馬感到自己因為羞恥和憤怒而感到窒息。"</p>
<p>"You see I am suing to you, Roma—I who have never sued to any human
being. Even when I was a child I would not sue to my own mother. Since
then I have done something in life—I have justified myself, I have
given my country a place among the nations, I stand for it in the eye of
the world—and yet—"</p><p>"你看，我正在向你起訴，羅馬——我這個從未向任何一個人起訴過的人。即使在我還是個孩子的時候，我都不會向我母親起訴。從那之後，我在生活中做了些什麼——我證明了自我，我為我的國家贏得了在各國之中的一席之地，我代表它立於世界的眼前——然而——"</p>
<p>"And yet I despise you," said Roma.</p><p>"然而我鄙視你," 羅馬說。</p>
<p>There was a moment of silence, and then, recovering himself, the Baron
tried to laugh.</p><p>有一刻的寂靜，然後，男爵試圖恢復自己，試圖笑出來。</p>
<p>"As you will. I must needs accept the only possible interpretation of
your words. I thought my devotion in spite of every provocation might
burn away your bitterness. But if...." (he was getting excited) "if you
have no respect for the past, you may have some regard for the future."</p><p>"隨你所願。我必須接受你話語中唯一可能的解釋。儘管面對種種挑釁，我原以為我的奉獻可能會消融你的苦澀。但是如果......" (他變得激動起來)"如果你對過去毫不尊重，你或許會對未來有所顧忌。"</p>
<p>She looked at him with a new fear.</p><p>她以新的恐懼看著他。</p>
<p>"Naturally, I have no desire to humiliate myself further by suing to a
woman who despises me. It will be sufficient to punish the man who is
responsible for my loss of esteem in the eyes of one who has so many
reasons to respect me."<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00503" title="395"><a id="Page_395" title="395"></a></span></p><p>"當然，我並不希望進一步羞辱自己，對一個鄙視我的女人提出訴訟。對於導致我在那個有太多理由尊重我的人眼中失去威望的男人進行懲罰就足夠了。"</p>
<p>"You mean that you will persuade the King to break his promise?"</p><p>"你是說你會說服國王打破他的承諾嗎？"</p>
<p>"The King need not be persuaded after he has appointed his Dictator."</p><p>"國王在任命他的獨裁者後，無需再被說服。"</p>
<p>"So the King's promise to pardon Mr. Rossi will be set aside by his
successor?"</p><p>"所以國王對羅西先生的赦免承諾將會被他的繼任者擱置嗎？"</p>
<p>"If I leave this room without a better answer ... yes."</p><p>"如果我沒有更好的答案就離開這個房間……是的。"</p>
<p>Roma drew from behind the revolver she had held in her hand.</p><p>"羅馬從她手中拿出了她一直握著的左輪手槍。"</p>
<p>"Then you will never leave this room," she said.</p><p>"那麼，你將永遠不會離開這個房間，"她說。</p>
<p>The Baron stood perfectly still, and there was a moment of deadly
silence.</p><p>男爵完全靜止不動，那裡有一刻致命的寂靜。</p>
<p>Then came the rattle of carriage wheels on the stones of the piazza,
followed immediately by a hurried footstep on the stairs.</p><p>然後，廣場上的石頭上傳來了馬車輪叫的聲音，緊接著是樓梯上匆忙的腳步聲。</p>
<p>Roma heard it. She was trembling all over.</p><p>羅馬聽到了。她全身都在震抖。</p>
<p>A moment afterwards there was a knock at the door. Then another knock,
and another. It was imperative, irregular knocking.</p><p>"片刻後，門外傳來敲門聲。然後又是一聲，接著又有一聲。這是迫切而不規則的敲門聲。"</p>
<p>Roma, who had forgotten all about the Baron, was rooted to the spot on
which she stood. The Baron, who had understood everything, was also
transfixed.</p><p>"羅馬，已經忘了所有關於男爵的事情，驚愕地定在原地。男爵，他已經明白了所有事情，也驚愕地定在原地。"</p>
<p>Then came a thick, vibrating voice, "Roma!"</p><p>然後，一個厚實而震動的聲音響起，"羅馬！"</p>
<p>Roma made a faint cry, and dropped the revolver out of her graspless
hand. The Baron picked it up instantly. He was the first to recover
himself.</p><p>"羅馬微弱地哭出聲來，無力地放開了她的手，手槍順勢掉了出來。男爵立即撿起了它。他是第一個恢復冷靜的人。"</p>
<p>"Hush!" he said in a whisper. "Let him come in. I will go into this
room. I mean no harm to any one; but if he should follow me—if you
should reveal my presence—remember what I said before about a
challenge. And if I challenge him his shrift will have to be swift and
sure."</p><p>"噓!"他用耳語聲音說。"讓他進來。我會去這個房間。我不打算傷害任何人;但是如果他跟蹤我，如果你揭示了我的存在, 記住我之前說過的挑戰。如果我挑戰他，他的懺悔將必須迅速且確定。"</p>
<p>The Baron stepped into the bedroom. Then the voice came again, "Roma!
Roma!"</p><p>男爵走進臥室。然後又聽到那聲音再次響起，"羅馬！ 羅馬！"</p>
<p>Roma staggered to the door and opened it.</p><p>"羅馬搖搖晃晃地走到門前，打開了它。"</p>
<h3 id="pgepubid00504">VI</h3>
<p>Flying from the railway station in the coupé, down the Via Nazionale and
the Corso Vittorio Emanuele, Rossi had seen by the electric light the
remains of the day's festoons, triumphal arches, banners, embroideries,
emblems, and flowers.<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00505" title="396"><a id="Page_396" title="396"></a></span> These things had passed before his eyes like a
flash, yet they had deepened the bitterness of his desire to meet with
Roma that he might thrust the evidence of her treachery into her face.</p><p>`從火車站飛奔而出，經過拿撒勒街和維托里奧·埃馬努埃萊大道的馬車裡，羅西在電燈下看見了當天慶祝活動的遺跡，包括節日的繩索、凱旋門、旗幟、繡品、標誌和花朵。這些東西像閃光般在他眼前閃過，然而，他們卻加深了他想要見到羅馬，將她背叛的證據猛烈地扔在她臉上的渴望。`</p>
<p>But when he came to his own house and Roma opened the door to him, and
he saw her, looking so ill, her cheeks so pale, her beautiful eyes so
large and timid, and her whole face expressing such acute suffering, his
anger began to ebb away, and he wanted to take her into his arms in
spite of all.</p><p>"但當他回到自己的家裡，羅馬為他開門，他看到她，她看起來如此病態，她的臉頰如此蒼白，她美麗的眼睛如此大而害怕，她的整個臉孔表現出如此劇烈的痛苦，他的憤怒開始消退，儘管所有的事情，他還是想將她緊緊擁入懷中。"
</p>
<p>Roma knew she was opening the door to Rossi, whatever the strange chance
which had brought him there, and when she saw him she made a faint cry
and a helpless little run toward him, and then stopped and looked
frightened. The momentary sensation of joy and relief had instantly died
away. She looked at his world-worn face, so disfigured by pain and
humiliation, and the arms she had outstretched to meet him she raised
above her head as if to ward off a blow.</p><p>羅馬知道她正在向羅西開啟大門，無論是什麼奇特的機會帶他來到這裡，當她看到他時，她發出了微弱的哭聲，並對他做出了無助的小跑，然後停下來看起來很害怕。稍瞬間的喜悅和釋放感瞬間消失無蹤。她看著他那由痛苦和屈辱所破壞的世故面孔，她原本伸出來迎接他的雙臂，現在她舉過頭頂，彷彿要擋住一擊。</p>
<p>He saw under the veil she wore the terror which had seized her at sight
of him, and by that alone he knew the depths of the abyss between them.
But this only increased the measureless pity he felt for her. And he
could not look at her without feeling that whatever she had done he
loved her, and must continue to love her to the last.</p><p>他看到她戴著的面紗下面，她看到他的時候所受到的恐慌。單憑這一點，他就知道他們之間的深淵有多深。但這只是增加了他對她無窮無盡的憐憫。他無法看著她而不覺得，無論她做了什麼，他都愛她，並且必須一直到最後都繼續愛她。</p>
<p>Tears rose to his throat and choked him. He opened his mouth to speak,
but at first he could not utter a word. At length he fumbled at his
breast, tore at his shirt front, so that his loose neckerchief became
untied, and finally drew from an inner pocket a crumpled paper.</p><p>他的眼淚升至喉嚨並讓他感到窒息。他開口想要說話，但最初他無法發出任何聲音。最後，他在胸前摸索，撕開他的襯衫前襟，以致他的鬆散圍巾變得鬆開，並最終從內部口袋中取出一張皺巴巴的紙。</p>
<p>"Look!" he said with a kind of gasp.</p><p>"看!"他帶著一種喘息般的聲音說。</p>
<p>She saw at a glance what the paper was, and dared not look at it a
second time. It was the warrant. She dropped into a chair with bowed
head and humble attitude, as if trying to sink out of sight.</p><p>她一眼就看出那紙片是什麼，但不敢再看第二眼。那是逮捕令。她低著頭，姿態卑微地落坐在椅子上，彷彿在試圖消失於人眼之外。</p>
<p>"Tell me you know nothing about it, Roma."</p><p>"告訴我你對此一無所知，羅馬。"</p>
<p>She covered her face with both hands and was silent.</p><p>她用雙手遮住臉並保持沉默。</p>
<p>"Tell me."</p><p>"告訴我。"</p>
<p>She had expected that he would flame out at her, but his voice was
breaking. She lifted her head and tried to look at him. His eyes were
fixed on her with an expression she had never seen before. She wanted to
speak, and could not do so. Her lip trembled, and she hung her head and
covered her face again, unable to say a word.</p><p>`她原本以為他會激烈的對她發火，但他的聲音卻顫抖著。她抬起頭，試圖看看他。他的眼神盯著她，那是她從未見過的表情。她想要說話，但卻做不到。她的嘴唇在顫抖，她低下頭，再次掩面，無法說出任何話語。`</p>
<p>By this time he knew full well that she was guilty, but<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00506" title="397"><a id="Page_397" title="397"></a></span> he tried to
persuade himself that she was innocent, to make excuses for her, and to
find her a way out.</p><p>這時，他已經非常清楚她的罪行，但他試圖說服自己相信她是無辜的，為她找藉口，並為她尋找出路。</p>
<p>"The newspapers say that the warrant was made at your instruction,
Roma—that you were the informer who denounced me. It cannot be true.
Tell me it is not true."</p><p>"報紙上說，這個拘捕令是由你，羅馬，發布的——你是揭發我罪行的線人。這不能是真的。告訴我這不是真的。"</p>
<p>She did not speak.</p><p>她沒有說話。</p>
<p>"Look at the name on it—David Leone. There was only one person in the
world who knew me by that name—only one."</p><p>"看看上面的名字—達維德·利奧內。全世界只有一人用此名稱認識我—只有一個人。"</p>
<p>She began to cry beneath her hands.</p><p>她開始掩面哭泣。</p>
<p>"I told you everything myself, Roma. It was in this very room, you
remember, the night you came here first. You asked me if I wasn't afraid
to tell you, and I answered no. You couldn't deceive the son of your own
father. It wasn't natural. I was right, wasn't I?"</p><p>"我自己告訴你所有的事情，羅馬。就在這個房間，你還記得嗎，那是你第一次來這裡的晚上。你問我是否害怕告訴你，我回答說不。你不能欺騙你自己父親的兒子。這不自然。我是對的，不是嗎？"</p>
<p>She felt him take hold of her hand and draw it down from her face.</p><p>她感到他抓住她的手，並將它從她的臉上拉下來。</p>
<p>"Look at the ring on your hand, dear. And look at this one on mine. You
are my wife, Roma. Does a man's wife betray him?"</p><p>"親愛的，看看你手上的戒指，再看看我的這個。你是我的妻子，羅馬。一個男人的妻子會背叛他嗎？"</p>
<p>His voice cracked at every word.</p><p>他的聲音在每個字上都出現了裂痕。</p>
<p>"When we parted you promised that as long as you lived, wherever you
might be, and whatever the world might do with us, you would be faithful
to me to the last. You have kept your promise, haven't you? It isn't
true that you have denounced me to the police."</p><p>"當我們分開時，你承諾只要你還活著，無論你在哪裡，無論世界如何對待我們，你將對我忠誠到底。你有遵守你的承諾，不是嗎？你並沒有將我向警方告發，這不是真的，對嗎？"</p>
<p>He paused, but she did not reply, and he dropped her hand, and it fell
like a lifeless thing to her side.</p><p>他停了下來，但她沒有回答，他放下她的手，它像無生命的物體一樣落在她的身邊。</p>
<p>"I know it isn't true, dear, but I want to hear it from your own lips.
One word—only one. Why shouldn't you speak? Say you know nothing of
this warrant. Say that somebody else knew David Leone. It may be so—I
cannot remember. Say ... say anything. Don't you see I will believe you
whatever you say, Roma?"</p><p>"我知道這並不是真的，親愛的，但我想從你的口中聽到它。
只有一個詞 - 只有一個。你為什麼不說話？說你對這張狀票一無所知。說是其他人認識大衛·利昂。也許是這樣 - 我想不起來了。說...說任何事。難道你不明白我會相信你說的任何事情，羅馬嗎？"</p>
<p>Roma could control herself no longer.</p><p>"羅馬再也無法控制自己了。"</p>
<p>"I know quite well it is impossible for you to forgive me, David."</p><p>"我知道你肯定無法原諒我，大衛。"</p>
<p>"Forgive!"</p><p>"原諒!"</p>
<p>"But if I could explain...."</p><p>"但是如果我能解釋...."</p>
<p>"Explain? What can there be to explain? Did you denounce me to the
magistrate?"</p><p>"解釋？有什麼可以解釋的？你有沒有向法官舉報我？"</p>
<p>"If you could only know what happened...."</p><p>"如果你能知道發生了什麼...."</p>
<p>"Did you denounce me to the magistrate?"<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00507" title="398"><a id="Page_398" title="398"></a></span></p><p>"你有向法官告發我嗎？"</p>
<p>She looked with frightened eyes at the bedroom door, and then dropped to
her knees.</p><p>她用恐怖的眼神瞥了一眼臥室的門，然後跪了下來。</p>
<p>"Have pity upon me."</p><p>"請憐憫我。"</p>
<p>"Did you denounce me to the magistrate?"</p><p>"你有沒有向法官揭發我？"</p>
<p>"Yes."</p><p>"是的。"</p>
<p>His pale face became ashen.</p><p>他的蒼白臉龔變得如灰塵般蒼白。</p>
<p>"Then it's true," he said in a voice that hardly passed his throat.
"What my friends have been saying all along is true. They warned me
against you from the first, but I wouldn't believe them. I was a fool,
and <i>this</i> is my reward."</p><p>"那麼，這是真的，"他的聲音幾乎無法從他的喉嚨中說出來。
"我的朋友們自開始就一直對我說的都是真的。他們一開始就警告我不要相信你，但我沒有聽他們的。我真是個傻瓜，
這就是我得到的報酬。"</p>
<p>So saying he crushed the warrant in his hand and flung it at her feet.</p><p>他這麼說後，就將手上的搜查令握成了一團，然後扔在她的腳下。</p>
<p>Roma could bear no more. Making a great call on her resolution, she
rose, turned towards the bedroom door, and, speaking in a loud voice in
order that he who was within might hear, she said:</p><p>"羅馬再也無法忍受。她下定決心，站起來，轉向臥室的門，並大聲地說話，以便裡面的人聽得見，她說："</p>
<p>"David, I don't want to excuse myself or to blame anybody else, whoever
it may be, and however wickedly he may have acted. But, from my soul and
before God, I tell you that if I denounced you I did it for the best."</p><p>"大衛，我不想為自己辯護或責怪任何人，不管是誰，不管他的行為有多麼惡劣。但是，從我內心並在上帝前，我告訴你，如果我揭發了你，那是為了好。"</p>
<p>"The best!"</p><p>"最好的！"</p>
<p>He laughed bitterly, but she forced herself to go on.</p><p>他苦笑著，但是她逼自己繼續。</p>
<p>"When you went away you warned me that your enemies could be merciless.
They <i>have</i> been merciless. First, they tempted me with the fear of
poverty. I had been accustomed to wealth, comfort, luxury. Look round
you, David—they are gone. Did I ever regret them? Never! I was rich
enough in your love, and I would not have sacrificed that for a queen's
crown."</p><p>"當你離開我時，你警告我說，你的敵人可能會無情至極。
他們真的無情至極。首先，他們利用我對貧困的恐懼來誘惑我。我曾經習慣於富裕，舒適，奢華的生活。看看你周圍，大衛 - 他們都已經消失了。我對他們有任何懊悔的感覺嗎？從來沒有！在你的愛裡我已經足夠富有，而我寧願捨棄女皇的皇冠也不願犧牲那份愛。"</p>
<p>She looked up at his tortured face and saw that it was full of scorn,
but still she struggled on.</p><p>她抬頭看著他痛苦的臉，看到上面滿是蔑視，但她仍然奮力前行。</p>
<p>"Then they tempted me with jealousy. The forged letter which killed
Bruno was intended to poison me. Did I believe it? No! I knew you loved
me, and if you didn't, if you had deceived me, that made no difference.
<i>I</i> loved <i>you</i>, and even if I lost you I should always love you,
whatever happened."</p><p>"然後他們用嫉妒來誘惑我。那封造假的信，它本意是要毒害我，卻賠上了布魯諾的命。我相信它了嗎？沒有！我知道你愛我，即使你不愛，即使你欺騙我，那都無所謂。我愛你，即使我失去你，不論發生什麼事情，我都會一直愛你。"</p>
<p>Again she looked up into his face with her glistening eyes. It was not
anger she saw there now, but an expression of bewilderment and of pain.</p><p>"她再次抬起頭來看著他的臉，眼中閃爍著光芒。她現在看到的並不是憤怒，而是一種困惑和痛苦的表情。"</p>
<p>"Last of all, they tempted me with love itself. The treacherous tyrants
deceived and intimidated the Pope—the good and saintly Pope—and
through him they told me that your arrest was certain, your life in
danger, and nothing<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00508" title="399"><a id="Page_399" title="399"></a></span> could save you from your present peril but that I
should denounce you for your past offences. The phantom of conspiracy
rose up before me, and I remembered my father, doomed to life-long exile
and a lonely death. It was my dark hour, dearest, and when they promised
me—faithfully promised me—that your life should be spared...."</p><p>"最後，他們用愛情本身來誘惑我。那些狡猾的暴君欺騙和恐嚇教皇——那個善良和聖潔的教皇——透過他們告訴我你已經被確定將被逮捕，你的生命處於危險之中，除非我因你過去的罪行而告發你，否則沒有什麼能從你現在的危險中拯救你出來。陰謀的幽靈在我面前升起，我想起了我的父親，命定要被流放終生和孤獨的死亡。那是我最黑暗的時刻，親愛的，當他們向我承諾——誠實地承諾我——你的生命將被饒恕......"</p>
<p>A faint sound came from the bedroom. Roma heard it, but Rossi, in the
tumult of his emotion, heard nothing.</p><p>"來自睡房的微弱聲音傳了出來。羅馬聽到了，但在羅西的情緒騷動中，他什麼都沒有聽到。"</p>
<p>"I know what you will say, dear—that you would have given your life a
hundred times rather than save it at the loss of all you hold so dear.
But I am no heroine, David. I am only a woman who loves you, and I could
not see you die."</p><p>"我知道你會說什麼，親愛的——你寧願犧牲你的生命一百次，也不願意因失去你依賴的一切而活下來。但我不是英勇的女英雄，大衛。我只是一個愛你的女人，我無法看你死去。"</p>
<p>He felt his soul swell with love and forgiveness, and he wanted to sob
like a child, but Roma went on, and without trying to keep back her
tears.</p><p>他感到他的靈魂充滿了愛和寬恕，他想要像孩子一樣哭泣，但羅馬繼續前進，並未試圖抑制她的眼淚。</p>
<p>"That's all, dear. Now you know everything. It is not your fault that
the love you have brought home to me is dead. I hoped that before you
came home I might die too. I think my soul must be dead already. I do
not hope for pardon, but if your great heart <i>could</i> pardon me...."</p><p>"就這樣了，親愛的。現在你知道了所有的事。我死去的愛並不是你的過錯。我曾希望在你回家之前我也能死去。我想我的靈魂已經死去了。我並不期待被寬恕，但如果你偉大的心能夠原諒我...."</p>
<p>"Roma," said Rossi at last, while tears filled his eyes and choked his
voice, "when I escaped from the police I came here to avenge myself; but
if you say it was your love that led you to denounce me...."</p><p>"羅馬," 羅西最後說，眼淚充滿了他的眼睛，令他的聲音變得哽咽, "當我從警察那裡逃出來，我來到這裡是為了報仇; 但如果你說是你的愛使你去揭露我...."</p>
<p>"I do say so."</p><p>"我確實這麼說了。"</p>
<p>"Your love, and nothing but your love...."</p><p>"你的愛，只有你的愛...."</p>
<p>"Nothing! Nothing!"</p><p>"沒有！沒有！"</p>
<p>"Though I am betrayed and fallen, and may be banished or condemned to
death, yet...."</p><p>"即使我被背叛和陷落，可能被流放或被判處死刑，然而...."</p>
<p>Her heart swelled and throbbed. She held out her arms to him.</p><p>她的心臟膨脹並劇烈跳動。她向他伸出了手臂。</p>
<p>"David!" she cried, and at the next moment she was clasped to his
breast.</p><p>"大衛!" 她呼喊著，下一刻她就被他緊緊地抱在懷裡。</p>
<p>Again there was a faint sound from the adjoining room.</p><p>"再次從相鄰的房間裡傳來了微弱的聲音。"</p>
<p>"The woman lies," said a voice behind them.</p><p>"那個女人在說謊，"一個在他們後面的聲音說。</p>
<p>The Baron stood in the bedroom door.</p><p>男爵站在臥室門口。</p>
<h3 id="pgepubid00509">VII</h3>
<p>The Baron's impulse on going into the bedroom had been merely to escape
from one who must be a runaway prisoner, and therefore little better
than a madman, whose worst madness<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00510" title="400"><a id="Page_400" title="400"></a></span> would be provoked by his own
presence; but when he realised that Rossi was self-possessed, and even
magnanimous in his hour of peril, the Baron felt ashamed of his
hiding-place, and felt compelled to come out. In spite of his pride he
had been forced to overhear the conversation, and he was humiliated by
the generosity of the betrayed man, but what humbled him most was the
clear note of the woman's love.</p><p>`當男爵走進臥室的時候，他的衝動只是想從一個肯定是逃犯，因此比瘋子好不到哪去，他自己的存在會激發他最糟糕的瘋狂的人那裡逃脫；但當他意識到羅西自我控制，甚至在危險時刻表現出堂堂的風範，男爵為自己的藏身之地感到羞恥，覺得有必要出來。儘管他非常自豪，但他不得不偷偷聽到對話，他被背叛的人的慷慨深感羞辱，但最使他羞愧的是女人愛情的清晰之聲。`</p>
<p>Knight of the Annunziata! Cousin of the King! President of the Council!
Dictator! These things had meant something to him an hour ago. What were
they now?</p><p>`安奴齊亞塔的騎士！國王的表親！理事會的主席！獨裁者！這些東西一小時前對他來說還有些意義。現在它們又是什麼呢？`</p>
<p>The agony of the Baron's jealousy was intolerable. For the first time in
his life his ideas, usually so clear and exact, became confused. Roma
was lost to him. He was going mad.</p><p>`男爵的嫉妒之痛無法忍受。他的生活中首次有這麼模糊不清的想法，通常都是那麼的清晰和確切。羅馬對他來說已經遺失了。他快要瘋了。`</p>
<p>He looked at the revolver which he had snatched up when Roma let it
fall, examined it, made sure it was loaded, cocked it, put it in the
right-hand pocket of his overcoat, and then opened the door.</p><p>他看著手中的左輪手槍，當羅馬掉落手槍時他迅速撿起，審視了一番，確認它已經上膛，然後扣動了扳機，將其放入大衣右手口袋，然後打開門。</p>
<p>The two in the other room did not at first see him. He spoke, and their
arms slackened and they stood apart.</p><p>其他房間的兩人起初並未看到他。他開口說話，他們的手臂鬆開，並各自站開。</p>
<p>After a moment of silence Rossi spoke. "Roma," he said, "what is this
gentleman doing here?"</p><p>經過片刻的沉默後，羅西開口說話。他說："羅馬，這位先生在這裡做什麼？"</p>
<p>The Baron laughed. "Wouldn't it be more reasonable to ask what you are
doing here, sir?" he asked.</p><p>男爵笑了。“詢問您在這裡做什麼，先生，難道不更合情合理嗎？”他問。</p>
<p>Then trying to put into logical sequence the confused ideas which were
besieging his tormented brain, he said, "I understand that this
apartment belongs now to the lady; the lady belongs to me, and when she
denounced you to the police it was merely in fulfilment of a plan we
concocted together on the day you insulted both of us in your speech in
the piazza."</p><p>然後，他試圖將侵襲他受折磨大腦的混亂想法進行邏輯序列化，他說，“我明白這個公寓現在屬於那位女士；那位女士屬於我，當她在警方面前告發你時，只是我們在你在廣場上的演講中侮辱我們兩人那一天一起策劃的計畫的一部分。”</p>
<p>Rossi made a step forward with a threatening gesture, but Roma
intervened. The Baron gripped firmly the revolver in his pocket, and
said:</p><p>羅西以威脅的姿態跨前一步，但羅馬介入了。男爵緊握著口袋裡的左輪手槍，並說：
</p>
<p>"Take care, sir. If a man threatens me he must be prepared for the
consequences. The lady knows what those consequences may be."</p><p>"請小心，先生。如果一個人威脅我，他必須為後果做好準備。這位女士知道那些後果可能是什麼。"</p>
<p>Rossi, breathing heavily, was trying to retain the mastery of himself.</p><p>"羅西，呼吸沉重，試圖保持對自己的控制。"</p>
<p>"If you tell me that the lady...."</p><p>"如果你告訴我那位女士...."</p>
<p>"I tell you that according to the law of nature and of reason the lady
is my wife."</p><p>"依照自然法則和理智來看，這位女士是我的妻子。"</p>
<p>"It's a lie."</p><p>"這是一個謊言。"</p>
<p>"Ask her."<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00511" title="401"><a id="Page_401" title="401"></a></span></p><p>"請問她。"</p>
<p>"And so I will."</p><p>"於是我將會這麼做。"</p>
<p>Roma saw the look of triumph with which Rossi turned to her. The
terrible moment she had lived in fear of had come to pass. The letters
she had written to Rossi had not yet reached him, and her enemy was
telling his story before she had told hers.</p><p>"羅馬看到羅西滿足地向她轉過來的表情。她深感恐懼的那一刻終於來臨。她寫給羅西的信還未到他手上，而她的敵人已經在她之前說出了他的故事。"</p>
<p>What was she to do? She would have said anything at that moment and
believed herself justified before God. But even lying itself would be of
no avail. She remembered the Baron's threat and trembled. If she told
the truth her confession, coming at that moment, would be worse than
vain. If she told a lie, Rossi would insult the Baron, the Baron would
challenge Rossi, and they would fight with all the consequences the
Baron had foretold.</p><p>她該怎麼辦呢？在那一刻，她可能會說任何話，並認為自己在上帝面前是有理的。但即使是撒謊也無濟於事。她想起男爵的威脅而感到恐慌。如果她說出真相，那麼在此刻的自白將比徒勞更糟。如果她撒謊了，羅西將會侮辱男爵，男爵會向羅西挑戰，他們將會開始戰鬥，所有的後果都將如男爵所預言的那樣。</p>
<p>"Roma," said Rossi, "forgive me for putting the question, but a
falsehood like this, affecting the character of a good woman, ought to
be stopped in the slanderer's throat. Don't be afraid, dear. You know I
will believe you before anybody in the world. What the man says is a
lie, isn't it?"</p><p>"羅西說，「羅馬，原諒我這樣問你，但是這種影響一個好女人品格的謊言，應該在誹謗者的喉嚨裡宣告是假的。親愛的，別害怕。你知道我會相信你，超過世界上的任何人。那個男人說的是謊言，不是嗎？」"</p>
<p>Roma stood for a moment looking in a helpless way from Rossi to the
Baron, and from the Baron back to Rossi. She made an effort to speak,
but at first she could not do so. At length she said:</p><p>"羅馬（Roma）一度站在那裡，無助地從羅西(Rossi)轉向男爵(Baron)，又從男爵轉向羅西。她努力開口說話，但起初她做不到。終於，她說道："</p>
<p>"Can't you trust me, David?"</p><p>"你不能相信我，大衛嗎？"</p>
<p>"Trust you? Answer me on this one point and I will trust you on all the
rest. Say the man speaks falsely, and I will stake my life on your
word."</p><p>"信任你？只需在這一點上回答我，我將信任你的一切其他事情。只要說那個人在說謊，我將賭上我的生命相信你的話。"</p>
<p>Roma did not reply, and the Baron tried to laugh.</p><p>"羅馬沒有回答，男爵試著笑了笑。"</p>
<p>"If the lady can deny what I say, let her do so. If she cannot, you must
come to your own conclusions."</p><p>"如果那位女士能否認我所說的話，就讓她這麼做。如果她不能，你必須自己作出結論。"</p>
<p>"Deny it, Roma! Deny it, and I will fling the man's insult in his face."</p><p>"否認它，羅馬！否認它，我就會將那個人的侮辱扔回他的臉上。"</p>
<p>"David, if I could tell you everything...."</p><p>"大衛，如果我可以告訴你所有的事情...."</p>
<p>"Everything! It's only one thing I want to know, Roma."</p><p>"所有的事情！我只想知道一件事，羅馬。"</p>
<p>"If you had received my letters addressed to England...."</p><p>"如果你收到我寄往英國的信...."</p>
<p>"Letters? What matter about letters now. Don't you understand, dear?
This gentleman says that before you married me you ... had already
belonged to him. That's what he means, and it's false, isn't it?"</p><p>"信件？現在信件又有什麼重要的事呢。你不明白嗎，親愛的？
這位先生說，在你嫁給我之前，你已經...已經屬於他了。那就是他的意思，這不是真的，對不對？"</p>
<p>"My mouth is closed. If I could say anything one way or other...."</p><p>"我的嘴巴是閉著的。如果我可以說任何一種方式或另一種方式...."</p>
<p>"Yes or no—that is all that is necessary."<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00512" title="402"><a id="Page_402" title="402"></a></span></p><p>"是或否——這就是所需要的。"</p>
<p>Roma looked up at him with a pleading expression, but seeing nothing in
his face except the magistrate who was interrogating her, she turned her
back and hung her head, and cried like a helpless child.</p><p>"羅馬抬頭看著他，滿臉的乞求之色，但在他的臉上只看到審問她的法官，她轉過身去，垂下頭來，像無助的小孩一樣哭了起來。"</p>
<p>Rossi laid hold of her arm, twisted her about, and looked into her eyes.</p><p>"羅西緊握她的手臂，將她轉過身來，並凝望著她的眼睛。"</p>
<p>"Crying, Roma? You don't mean to tell me that I am to believe what the
man says? Deny it! For God's sake deny it!"</p><p>"你在哭，羅馬？你不是要我相信那個人說的話吧？否認它！看在上帝的份上，否認它！"</p>
<p>"I ... I cannot ... I cannot speak," she stammered, and then there was a
dead silence.</p><p>"我...我不能...我不能說話," 她結結巴巴地說，然後沉寂了。</p>
<p>When Rossi spoke again his face was dark as a thundercloud, and his
voice hoarse as a raven's.</p><p>當羅西再次開口時，他的臉色像烏雲一樣黑暗，聲音像烏鴉一樣沙啞。</p>
<p>"If that is so, there is nothing more to say."</p><p>"如果那是真的，那就沒有什麼更多要說的了。"</p>
<p>She looked up at him with a pathetic remonstrance, but he met her eyes
with the gaze of a relentless judge who had tried and condemned her.</p><p>她以一種可憐的抗議看著他，但他以一種無情的法官的眼神碰到她的眼睛，那種法官已經審判並定她的罪。</p>
<p>"I was not to blame, David—I swear before God I was not."</p><p>"我並不是罪魁禍首，大衛——我在上帝面前發誓我真的不是。"</p>
<p>"Yet you allowed me to go on believing that falsehood. The woman who
could do a thing like that could do anything. She could pretend to be
poor, pretend to be tempted, pretend...."</p><p>"然而你讓我繼續相信那種謊言。這樣的女人可以做任何事。她可以假裝窮困，假裝受到誘惑，假裝...."</p>
<p>"David, what are you saying?"</p><p>"大衛，你在說什麼？"</p>
<p>Rossi broke into a peal of mad laughter.</p><p>羅西爆發出一陣瘋狂的笑聲。</p>
<p>"Saying? That you have deceived me from the beginning, when you
undertook to betray me to your master and paramour."</p><p>"說？從一開始你就欺騙了我，你答應去背叛我，向你的主人和情人告密。"</p>
<p>"David!"</p><p>"大衛！"</p>
<p>She tried to protest, but he bore her down with a laugh of scorn, and
then wheeled round on the Baron, who had been standing in silence behind
them.</p><p>她試圖進行抗議，但他嘲諷的笑聲壓倒了她，
然後轉身對著那個在他們背後默默站立的男爵。</p>
<p>"That's why you are here to-night, I suppose. You didn't expect to be
disturbed, did you? You didn't expect to see me. You thought I was
stowed away in a cell, and you could meet in safety.... Oh, my brain! my
brain! I shall go mad!"</p><p>"你今晚就是這個原因來的，我猜。你沒有預期到會被打擾，對吧？你沒有預期到會見到我。你以為我被關在一個小單間裡，你們可以安全地見面....哦，我的腦子！我的腦子！我會瘋掉的!"</p>
<p>"It isn't true," cried Roma. And turning to the Baron with flame in her
eyes she said, "Tell him it isn't true. You know it isn't true."</p><p>"這不是真的，"羅馬大聲地哭喊。她轉向巴朗，眼中燃燒著憤怒的火焰，說道，"告訴他這不是真的。你知道這不是真的。"</p>
<p>"True?" Again the Baron tried to laugh. "Of course it's true. Every word
the man has uttered is true. Don't ask me to lie to him as you have done
from first to last."<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00513" title="403"><a id="Page_403" title="403"></a></span> At that Rossi's mad laughter stopped suddenly, and
he stepped up to the Baron with fury in his face.</p><p>"真的嗎?"男爵再次試圖笑出聲來。"當然是真的。那個人說的每一句話都是真的。不要讓我像你一樣對他一直撒謊。"聽到這話，羅西的瘋狂笑聲突然停止，他怒氣衝衝地走向男爵。</p>
<p>"You scoundrel!" he said. "You've succeeded, you've separated us, but I
understand you perfectly. You have used this unhappy lady's shame to
compel her to carry out your infamous designs, and now that she is done
with, she must lose the man who played with her as well as the man she
has played with."</p><p>"你這個惡棍！"他說道。"你成功了，你把我們分開了，但我完全明白你的意圖。你利用這個不幸女士的羞愧來迫使她完成你那卑鄙的設計，現在她的使命完成了，她必須失去和她玩弄的人，以及被她玩弄的人。"</p>
<p>Roma saw that the Baron was feeling for something in the side pocket of
his overcoat, and she called to Rossi to warn him.</p><p>"羅馬看到男爵正在他的大衣側口袋裡摸索著什麼，她向羅西發出警告。"</p>
<p>"One doesn't quarrel with an escaped criminal," said the Baron. "It is
sufficient to call the police ... Police!" he cried, lifting his voice
and taking a step forward.</p><p>"一個人不會與一個逃犯爭吵,"男爵說。 "只需要報警就足夠了... 警察!"他提高了聲音，邁步向前。</p>
<p>Rossi stood between the Baron and the door.</p><p>"羅西站在男爵和門之間。"</p>
<p>"Don't stir," he said. "Don't utter a word, I warn you. I'm a hunted dog
to-night, and a hunted dog is dangerous."</p><p>"不要動,"他說。"我警告你，不要出聲。我今晚像被追趕的狗，而被追趕的狗是危險的。"</p>
<p>"Let me pass," said the Baron.</p><p>"讓我過去,"男爵說。</p>
<p>"Not yet, sir," said Rossi. "You have something to do before you go. You
have to go down on your knees and beg the pardon of your victim...."</p><p>"還沒有，先生，"羅西說。"在你走之前，你還有件事要做。你必須跪下並向你的受害者拜託謝罪....."</p>
<p>Roma saw the Baron draw the revolver. She saw Rossi spring upon him, and
seize him by the collar of the Annunziata which hung over his shirt
front. She saw the men go struggling through the door of the
sitting-room into the dining-room. She covered her ears with her hands
to shut out the sounds from the outer chamber, but she heard Rossi's
hoarse voice that was like the growl of a wild beast. Then came the
deafening report of a pistol-shot, then the vibration of a heavy fall,
and then dead silence.</p><p>羅馬看到男爵拔出左輪手槍。她看見羅西向他撲過去，抓住掛在他襯衫前面的安努齊亞塔的衣領。她看見那些男人在客廳與餐廳之間掙扎。她用手捂住耳朵，以阻止來自外面房間的聲音，但她聽到了羅西的嘶啞聲音，像野獸的咆哮。接著是手槍射擊的震耳欲聾的聲音，然後是重物猛烈摔落的震動，接著是死寂。</p>
<p>Roma was still standing with her hands over her ears, shaking with
terror and scarcely able to breathe, when footsteps resounded on the
floor behind her. Giddy and dazed, with one agonising thought she
turned, saw Rossi, and uttered a cry of relief. But he was coming down
on her with great staring eyes, and the look of a desperate maniac. For
one moment he stood over her in his ungovernable rage, and scalding and
blistering words poured out of him in a torrent.</p><p>"當羅馬還站在那裡，雙手掩耳，因恐懼而不停地顫抖，幾乎無法呼吸時，她的背後傳來了腳步聲。她頭暈目眩，充滿痛苦，轉身看到羅西，喊出了舒心的叫喚。但他用一副瘋狂絕望的眼神朝她走去。他用他無法控制的憤怒凝視著她，灼熱而尖酸的言語如洪流一般從他口中狂湧而出。"</p>
<p>"He's dead. D'you hear me? He's dead. But it's as much your work as
mine, and you will never think of yourself henceforward without remorse
and horror. I curse you by the love you've wronged and the heart you've
broken. I curse you by the hopes you wasted and the truth you've<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00514" title="404"><a id="Page_404" title="404"></a></span>
outraged. I curse you by the memory of your father, the memory of a
saint and martyr."</p><p>"他已經死了。你聽到我說的嗎? 他已經死了。但這跟你我一樣是你的作為，從此你將永遠帶著悔恨和驚恐想到你自己。我以你所冤枉的愛情和你所破碎的心來詛咒你。我以你浪費的希望和你侮辱的真理來詛咒你。我以你父親的記憶，一個聖人和烈士的記憶來詛咒你。"</p>
<p>Before his last words were spoken Roma had ceased to hear. With a feeble
moan, interrupted by a faint cry, she had slowly retreated before him,
and then fallen face downwards. Everything about her, Rossi, herself,
the room, the lamp on the table and the shadows cast by it, had mingled
and blended, and gone out in a complete obscurity.</p><p>`在他最後的話語被說出之前，羅馬已經停止了聽力。她以一種虛弱的呻吟，間斷的微弱的叫聲，慢慢地在他面前退讓，然後面部朝下倒下。她周圍的一切，羅西，她自己，房間，桌子上的燈和它投射出來的陰影，都混合在一起，並在完全的黑暗中消失。`</p>
<h3 id="pgepubid00515">VIII</h3>
<p>When Roma regained consciousness, there was not a sound in the
apartment. Even the piazza outside was quiet. Somebody was playing a
mandoline a long way off, and the thin notes were trembling through the
still night. A dog was barking in the distance. Save for these sounds
everything was still.</p><p>當羅馬恢復意識時，整個公寓一片寂靜。就連外面的廣場也很安靜。遠處有人在彈奏曼陀林，細微的音符在靜夜中震動。遠處有狗在吠叫。除了這些聲音之外，一切都安靜了下來。</p>
<p>Roma lay for some minutes in a state of semi-consciousness. Her head was
swimming with vague memories, and she was unable at first to disentangle
the thread of them. At length she remembered all that had happened, and
she wept bitterly.</p><p>"羅馬處於半意識的狀態持續了一些分鐘。她的頭充滿了模糊的記憶，起初她無法解開這些記憶的糾結。經過一段時間後，她回想起所有發生過的事情，然後她痛苦地哭了起來。"
</p>
<p>But when the first tenderness was over the one feeling which seized and
held her was hatred of the Baron. Rossi had told her the man was dead,
and she felt no pity. The Baron deserved his death, and if Rossi had
killed him it was no crime.</p><p>但是，當最初的柔情過去後，她被一種情感所控制和佔據，那就是對男爵的憎恨。羅西告訴她這個人已經死了，她並不覺得同情。男爵死有餘辜，如果羅西殺了他，那也不算是罪過。</p>
<p>She was still lying where she had fallen when a noise as of some one
moving came from the adjoining room. Then a voice called to her:</p><p>她還躺在摔倒的地方，當她聽到來自隔壁房間的移動聲。然後有人對她喊道:</p>
<p>"Roma!"</p><p>"羅馬!"</p>
<p>It was the Baron's voice, broken and feeble. A great terror took hold of
her. Then came a sense of shame, and finally a feeling of relief. The
Baron was not dead. Thank God! O thank God!</p><p>那是男爵的聲音,虛弱而沙啞。一種巨大的恐懼籠罩了她。然後是一種羞愧的感覺，最後是一種鬆了一口氣的感覺。男爵並未死去。感謝上帝！哦，感謝上帝！</p>
<p>She got up and went into the dining-room. The Baron was on his knees
struggling to climb to the couch. His shirt front was partly dragged out
of his breast, and the Order of the Annunziata was torn away. There was
a streak of blood over his left eyebrow, and no other sign of injury.
But his eyes themselves were glassy, and his face was pale as death.<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00516" title="405"><a id="Page_405" title="405"></a></span></p><p>她站起身去了餐廳。男爵正在他的膝蓋上努力爬上沙發。他的襯衫部分被拉出來，安奴恩仕達勛章被撕掉了。他的左眉毛上有一道血痕，沒有其他的傷痕。但他的眼睛本身看起來像是玻璃，他的臉色蒼白如死。</p>
<p>"I'm dying, Roma."</p><p>"我正在死去，羅馬。"</p>
<p>"I'll run for a doctor," she said.</p><p>"我去找醫生," 她說。</p>
<p>"No. Don't do that. I don't want to be found here. Besides, it's
useless. In five minutes a clot of blood will have covered the lacerated
brain, and I shall lose consciousness again. Stupid, isn't it?"</p><p>"不，別那麼做。我不想在這裡被找到。而且，這也沒有用。五分鐘後，一塊血塊將覆蓋撕裂的大腦，我將再次喪失知覺。愚蠢，不是嗎？"</p>
<p>"Let me call for a priest," said Roma.</p><p>"讓我去叫一位牧師," 羅馬說。</p>
<p>"Don't do that either. You can do me more good yourself, Roma. Give me a
drink."</p><p>"也不要那麼做。你自己能對我更有幫助，羅馬。給我一杯飲料。"</p>
<p>Roma was fighting with an almost unconquerable repugnance, but she
brought the Baron a drink of water, and with shaking hands held the
glass to his trembling lips.</p><p>"羅馬正在與幾乎無法克服的反感做鬥爭，但她仍為男爵帶來了一杯水，並用顫抖的雙手將玻璃杯送到他顫抖的嘴唇上。"</p>
<p>"How do you feel?" she asked.</p><p>"你覺得如何？"她問。</p>
<p>"Worse," he answered.</p><p>"更糟,"他回答。</p>
<p>He looked into her eyes with evident contrition, and said, "I wonder if
it would be fair to ask you to forgive me? Would it?"</p><p>他明顯懊悔地看著她的眼睛，並說道，"我不知道是否該請你原諒我?應該可以吧?"</p>
<p>She did not answer, and he stretched himself and sighed. His breathing
became laboured and stertorous, his skin hot, and his eyes dilated.</p><p>她沒有回答，他伸了伸懶腰並嘆了口氣。他的呼吸變得沉重且打鼾，皮膚變熱，眼睛瞪大。</p>
<p>"How do you feel now?" asked Roma.</p><p>"你現在覺得如何？"羅馬問。</p>
<p>"I'm going," he replied, and he smiled again.</p><p>"我要走了，"他回答，然後又笑了。</p>
<p>The human soul was gleaming out of the wretched man at the last, and he
was looking at her now with pleading eyes which plainly could not see.</p><p>"這個悲慘的人在生命的最後時刻，人性的靈魂照亮他，他現在用哀求的眼神看著她，那雙眼睛明顯已經看不見了。"</p>
<p>"Are you there, Roma?"</p><p>"你在那裡嗎，羅馬？"</p>
<p>"Yes."</p><p>"是的。"</p>
<p>"Promise that you will not leave me."</p><p>"答應你不會離開我。"</p>
<p>"I will not leave you now," she answered in a low voice.</p><p>"我現在不會離開你,"她用低聲回答。</p>
<p>After a moment he roused himself with an effort and said, "And this is
the end! How absurd! They'll find me here in any case, and what a
chatter there'll be! The Chamber—the journals—all the scribblers and
speechifiers. What will Europe say? Another Boulanger, perhaps! But I'm
sorry for Italy. Nobody can say I did not love my country. Where her
interest lay I let nothing interfere. And just when everything seemed to
triumph...."</p><p>"片刻後，他用力振作精神，說道，“這就是結局！多荒謬啊！無論如何他們都會在這裡找到我，然後將會引起多大的譁然！議會——報紙——所有的寫手和發言者。歐洲會怎麼說呢？也許又是一個布朗傑！但我為義大利感到抱歉。無人能說我沒有愛我的國家。在她的利益面前，我不讓任何事情干擾。就在一切似乎都要成功的時候....”"</p>
<p>He attempted to laugh. Roma shuddered.</p><p>他試圖笑出來。羅馬戰慄了。</p>
<p>"It was the star of the Annunziata that did it. The man threw it with
such force. To think that it's been the aim of my life to win that Order
and now it kills me! Ridiculous, isn't it?"</p><p>"這是因為安諾濟阿塔之星。那個人用如此大的力量扔出它。想想看，我的生命目標就是獲得那個勳章，但現在它卻要了我的命！荒謬，不是嗎？"</p>
<p>Again he attempted to laugh.<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00517" title="406"><a id="Page_406" title="406"></a></span></p><p>他再次試圖笑出來。</p>
<p>"There's a side of justice in that, though, and I'm not going to whine.
The Pope tried to paint an awful end, but his nightmare didn't frighten
me. We must all bow our heads to the law of compensation—the Pope as
well as everybody else. But to die stupidly like this..."</p><p>"雖然這其中有正義的一面，而我並不打算抱怨。教皇試圖描繪一個可怕的結局，但他的夢魘並沒有嚇到我。我們都必須低頭對賠償法則，不管是教皇，還是所有人。但是，像這樣愚蠢地死去…"</p>
<p>He was speaking with difficulty, and dragging at his shirt front. Roma
opened it at the neck, and something dropped on to the floor. It was a
lock of glossy black hair tied with a red ribbon such as lawyers used to
bind documents together. Dull as his sight was, he saw it.</p><p>他說話時顯得困難，並拉扯著自己的襯衫前襟。羅馬將其從頸部處開啟，然後有東西掉落到地板上。那是一束綁著紅色絲帶的光亮黑色頭髮，這種絲帶是律師們用來將文件綁在一起的。他的視力雖然模糊，但他看見了它。</p>
<p>"Yours, Roma! You were ill with fever when you first came to Rome, you
remember. The doctors cut off your beautiful hair. This was some of it.
I've worn it ever since. Silly, wasn't it?"</p><p>"你的，羅馬！當你第一次來到羅馬時，你就發高燒了，你還記得吧。醫生剪掉了你美麗的頭髮，這是其中一部分。我一直戴著它。這是不是很傻？"</p>
<p>Tears began to shine in Roma's eyes. The cynical man who laughed at
sentiment had carried the tenderest badge of it in his breast.</p><p>淚水開始在羅馬的眼角閃耀。那個嘲笑情感的冷嘲男人卻在他的胸膛裡攜帶著最柔軟的情感的象徵。</p>
<p>"I used to wear some of my mother's in the same place when I was
younger. She was a good woman, too. When she put me to bed she used to
repeat something: 'Hold Thou my hands,' I think.... May I hold your
hands, Roma?"</p><p>"我年輕的時候，也曾在同一個地方穿過我母親的一些衣物。她也是一位好女人。當她把我送上床時，她總是重複一些話：'讓您握住我的雙手，' 我想.... 可以讓我握住你的雙手，羅馬嗎?"</p>
<p>Roma turned away her head, but she held out her hand, and the dying man
kissed it.</p><p>"羅馬轉過頭去，但她伸出手，垂死的人吻了她的手。"</p>
<p>"What a beautiful hand it is! I think I should know it among all the
hands in the world. How stupid! People have been afraid of me all my
life, Roma; even my mother was afraid of me when I was a child; but to
die without once having known what it was to have some one to love
you.... I believe I'm beginning to rave."</p><p>“多麼美的手啊！我覺得我應該能在全世界所有的手中認出它。多麼愚蠢！羅馬，我一生中人們都在害怕我；就連我在小時候，我的母親也怕我；但是死了，從未知道有人愛你是什麼感覺....我覺得我開始胡言亂語了。”</p>
<p>The mournful irony of the words was belied by the tremulous voice.</p><p>這段話的哀傷諷刺性，被那顫抖的聲音所否定了。</p>
<p>"My little comedy is played out, I suppose, and when the curtain is down
it is time to go home. Death is a solemn sort of homegoing, Roma, and if
those we've injured cannot forgive us before we go...."</p><p>"我的小小喜劇應該已經演完了，我想，當幕布落下，就該是回家的時候了。羅馬，死亡是一種嚴肅的歸家，如果我們傷害過的人在我們離開之前不能原諒我們...."</p>
<p>But the battle of hate in Roma's heart was over. She had remembered
Rossi and that had swept away all her bitterness. As the Baron stood to
her, so she stood to her husband. They were two unforgiven ones, both
guilty and ashamed.</p><p>但是，羅馬心中的仇恨之戰已經結束。她想起了羅西，那掃除了她所有的苦澀。她對待自己的丈夫就像男爵對待她一樣。他們都是兩個未被原諒的人，都感到有罪和羞愧。</p>
<p>"Indeed, indeed I do forgive you, as I hope to be forgiven," she said,
whereupon he laughed again, but with a different note altogether.<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00518" title="407"><a id="Page_407" title="407"></a></span></p><p>"確實，我確實原諒你，就像我希望被原諒一樣," 她說,然後他又笑了，但笑聲完全不同。</p>
<p>Then he asked her to lift up his head. She placed a cushion under it,
but still he called on her to lift his head higher.</p><p>然後他請求她抬高他的頭。她在下面放了一個墊子，但他仍然要求她把他的頭抬得更高。</p>
<p>"Can you lift me in your arms, Roma?... Higher still. So!... Can you
hold me there?"</p><p>"羅馬，你能把我抱起來嗎？...再高一點...就這樣！...你能抱著我嗎？"</p>
<p>"How do you feel now?" she asked.</p><p>"你現在感覺如何？"她問。</p>
<p>"It won't be long," he answered. His respirations came in whiffs.</p><p>"不會太久了，"他回答。他的呼吸聲如一陣陣短促。</p>
<p>Roma began to repeat as much as she could remember of the prayers for
the dying which she had heard at the deathbed of her aunt. The dying man
smiled an indulgent smile into the young woman's beautiful and mournful
face and allowed her to go on. As she prayed faster and faster, saying
the same words over and over again, she felt his breathing grow more
faint and irregular. At length it seemed to stop, and thinking it was
gone altogether, she made the sign of the cross and said:</p><p>羅馬開始盡可能地重複她在阿姨的死床上聽到的臨終禱告。臨死的男人微笑著寵愛地看著這位美麗而悲痛的年輕女人，讓她繼續下去。當她祈禱的速度越來越快，一遍又一遍地說著同樣的話時，她感到他的呼吸越來越微弱且不規則。最後似乎停了下來，以至於她以為他完全停止了呼吸，她畫了一個十字架，說道：</p>
<p>"We commend to Thee, O Lord, the soul of Thy servant Gabriel, that being
dead to the world he may live to Thee, and those sins which through the
frailty of human life he has committed, Thou by the indulgence of Thy
most merciful loving-kindness may wipe out, through Christ our Lord.
Amen."</p><p>"我們把你的僕人加百列的靈魂交給你，主啊，他雖然死於世界，卻可以活於你。他在這脆弱的人生中所犯的罪過，你會以你慈悲為懷的仁愛擦去。這全是透過我們的主基督。阿門。"</p>
<p>Then the glazed eyes opened wide and lighted up with a pitiful smile.</p><p>"然後，那雙無神的眼睛突然睜大，並在可憐的微笑中亮起。"</p>
<p>"I'm dying in your arms, Roma."</p><p>"我正在你的懷裡離世，羅馬。"</p>
<p>Then a long breath, and then:</p><p>然後長長地吸了一口氣，然後說：</p>
<p>"Adieu!"</p><p>"再見！"</p>
<p>He had tried to subdue all men to his will, and there was one man he had
subdued above all others—himself. There is a greater man than the great
man—the man who is too great to be great.</p><p>"他試圖讓所有人都屈服於自己的意志，而他最為屈服的就是自己。比偉大的人更偉大的人——那就是太偉大而無法成為偉大的人。"</p>
<h3 id="pgepubid00519">IX</h3>
<p>There had been no light in the dining-room except the reflection from
the lamp in the sitting-room, and now it fell with awful shadows on the
whitening face turned upward on the couch. The pains of death had given
a distorted expression, and the eyes remained open. Roma wished to close
them, but dared not try, and the image of inanimate objects standing in
the light was mirrored in their dull and glassy surface. The dog in the
distance was still barking, and a<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00520" title="408"><a id="Page_408" title="408"></a></span> company of tipsy revellers were
passing through the piazza singing a drinking song with a laugh in it.
When they were gone the clocks outside began to strike. It was one
o'clock, and the hour seemed to dance over the city in single steps.</p><p>除了來自起居室燈的反射外，餐廳裡並無燈光，現在這光線與可怕的陰影一同落在沙發上那面向上且漸白的臉上。死亡的痛苦給臉部帶來了扭曲的表情，眼睛仍然保持張開。羅馬希望能將眼睛閉上，但她不敢嘗試，那些無生命物體的形象在光線下呈現，並在那些呆板且玻璃般的表面上倒影。遠處的狗仍在吠叫，一群喝醉的狂歡者正在廣場穿越，唱著帶有笑聲的酒歌。當他們離開之後，外面的鐘聲開始敲響。現在是凌晨一點，這一小時似乎在城市上單步舞動。</p>
<p>Roma's terror became unbearable. Feeling herself to be a murderer, she
acted on a murderer's impulse and prepared to fly. When she recalled the
emotions with which she had determined to kill the Baron and then
deliver herself up to justice, they seemed so remote that they might
have existed only in a dream or belonged to another existence.</p><p>`羅馬的恐慌變得無法承受。她覺得自己是個殺人犯，就開始有了殺人犯的衝動，準備逃走。當她回想起自己決定殺掉男爵，然後自首的情緒時，那些感覺似乎如此遙遠，就像只存在於夢中，或者屬於另一種生活。`</p>
<p>Trembling from head to foot, and scarcely able to support herself, she
fixed her hat and veil afresh, put on her coat, and, taking one last
fearful look at the wide-open eyes on the couch, she went backwards to
the door. She dared not turn round from a creeping fear that something
might touch her on the shoulder.</p><p>"從頭到腳都在顫抖，幾乎不足以支撐自己，她重新整理了帽子和面紗，穿上大衣，並對躺在沙發上瞪大的眼睛投以最後一次恐懼的目光，她向門口倒退。由於擔心有東西可能會觸摸到她的肩膀，她不敢轉身。"</p>
<p>The door was open. No doubt Rossi had left it so, and she had not
noticed the circumstance until now. She had got as far as the first
landing when a poignant memory came to her—the memory of how she had
first descended those stairs with Rossi, going side by side, and almost
touching. The feeling that she had been fatal to the man since then
nearly choked and blinded her, but it urged her on. If she remained
until some one came, and the crime was discovered, what was she to say
that would not incriminate her husband?</p><p>門是開著的。無疑是羅西留下的，直到現在她才注意到這個情形。她走到了第一個樓梯平臺，此時一個深刻的記憶湧上她的心頭--她和羅西一起首次下這些樓梯的記憶，彼此並肩走著，幾乎相觸。她有種從那時起自己對那個男人成了災星的感覺，這種感覺幾乎讓她窒息和眼盲，但它激勵著她前行。如果她留下等有人來，並發現了這個罪行，她該說些什麼才不會讓丈夫受到牽連呢?</p>
<p>Suddenly she became aware of sounds from below—the measured footsteps
of soldiers. She knew who they were. They were the Carabineers, and they
were coming for Rossi, who had escaped and was being pursued.</p><p>`突然之間，她察覺到從下方傳來的聲音——士兵有節奏的腳步聲。她知道他們是誰。他們是憲兵，他們正在追尋已經逃脫的羅西。`</p>
<p>Roma turned instantly, and with a noiseless step fled back to the door
of the apartment, opened it with her latch-key, closed it silently, and
bolted it on the inside. This was done before she knew what she was
doing, and when she regained full possession of her faculties she was in
the sitting-room, and the Carabineers were ringing at the electric bell.</p><p>"羅馬立刻轉身，步伐無聲地逃回公寓的門口，用她的門鈴鑰匙開啟它，靜靜地關上它，並在內部閂上。在她清醒過來之前，這些就已經完成了，當她完全恢復神智時，她已經在客廳裡，而卡拉賓槍手正在按電鈴。"</p>
<p>They rang repeatedly. Roma stood in the middle of the floor, listening
and holding her breath.</p><p>他們一再地響鈴。羅馬站在地板中間，聆聽並屏住呼吸。</p>
<p>"Deuce take it!" said a voice outside. "Why doesn't the woman open the
door if she doesn't want to get herself into trouble? She's at home, at
all events."</p><p>"該死的！"一個在外面的聲音說。"如果那個女人不想讓自己陷入麻煩，為什麼她不開門？無論如何，她都在家。"</p>
<p>"So is he, if I know anything," said a second voice. "He drove here
anyway—not a doubt about that."</p><p>"如果我瞭解的沒錯，他也是一樣，"第二個聲音說。"他確實駕車來這裡，對此我毫無疑問。"</p>
<p>"Let's see the porter—he'll have another key."<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00521" title="409"><a id="Page_409" title="409"></a></span></p><p>"讓我們去看門房——他會有另一把鑰匙。"</p>
<p>"The old fool is out at the illuminations. But listen...." (the door
rattled as if some one was shaking it). "This door is fastened on the
inside."</p><p>"那個老傻瓜正在參加燈光節。但是聽好了...."（門吱吱作響，好像有人在搖動它）"這扇門是從裡面關上的。"</p>
<p>There was a chuckling laugh, and then, "All right, boys! Down with it!"</p><p>有一陣咯咯的笑聲，然後，"好了，男孩們！放下它！"</p>
<p>A moment afterwards the door was broken open and four Carabineers were
in the dining-room. Roma awaited their irruption without a word. She
continued to stand in the middle of the sitting-room looking straight
before her.</p><p>`片刻之後，門被破開，四個卡拉賓槍手闖進了餐廳。羅馬默默地等待他們的入侵，她繼續站在客廳的中央，直視前方。`</p>
<p>"Holy saints, what's this?" cried the voice she had heard first, and she
knew that the Carabineers were bending over the body on the couch.</p><p>"聖者啊，這是什麼？”她聽到的第一個聲音大喊，她知道那些憲兵正在向躺在沙發上的屍體彎腰。</p>
<p>"His Excellency!"</p><p>"閣下!"</p>
<p>"Lord save us!"</p><p>"主啊，救救我們！"</p>
<p>Roma's head was dizzy, and something more was said which she did not
follow. At the next moment the Carabineers had entered the sitting-room;
she was standing face to face with them, and they were questioning her.</p><p>“羅馬感到頭暈，接下來有些對話她並未有跟上。下一刻，憲兵已經進入了起居室；她站在他們面前，他們正在審問她。”</p>
<p>"The Honourable Rossi is here, isn't he?"</p><p>"尊敬的羅西在這裡，對嗎？"</p>
<p>"No," she answered in a timid voice.</p><p>"不,"她用膽怯的聲音回答。</p>
<p>"But he has been here, hasn't he?"</p><p>"但他來過這裡，不是嗎？"</p>
<p>"No," she answered more boldly.</p><p>"不,"她更大膽地回答。</p>
<p>"Do you mean to say that the Honourable Rossi has not been here
to-night?"</p><p>"你是說，羅西先生今晚沒有來過這裡嗎？"</p>
<p>"I do," she said, with exaggerated emphasis.</p><p>「我同意，」她說，語氣有些過於強硬。</p>
<p>The marshal of the Carabineers, who had been speaking, looked
attentively at her for a moment, and then he called on his men to search
the rooms.</p><p>`憲兵隊的元帥，他剛剛在說話，他凝視著她一會兒，然後他命令他的男人去搜查房間。`</p>
<p>"What's this?" said the marshal, taking up a sealed letter from the
bureau and reading the superscription: "L'on, Davide Rossi, Carceri
Giudiziarie, di Milano."</p><p>"這是什麼？" 這位元帥說，他從辦公桌上拿起一封密封的信，讀著上面的寫字："L'on，Davide Rossi，Carceri Giudiziarie，di Milano。"</p>
<p>"That's a letter I wrote to my husband and haven't yet posted," said
Roma.</p><p>"那是我寫給我丈夫還沒寄出的一封信,"羅馬說。</p>
<p>"But what's this?" cried a voice from the dining-room. "Presented to the
Honourable David Rossi by the Italian colony in Zürich."</p><p>"但這是什麼？"餐廳裡傳來一個聲音。"這是獻給尊貴的David Rossi的禮物，由蘇黎世的義大利僑民所贈。”</p>
<p>Roma sank into a seat. It was the revolver. She had forgotten it.</p><p>"羅馬沉倒在座位上。那是手槍。她已經忘記了它。"</p>
<p>"That's all right," said the marshal, with the same chuckle as before.</p><p>"沒問題,"元帥笑著說，就像之前一樣。</p>
<p>Dizzy and almost blind in her terror, Roma struggled to her feet. "The
revolver belongs to me," she said. "Mr.<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00522" title="410"><a id="Page_410" title="410"></a></span> Rossi left it in my keeping
when he went away two months ago, and since that time he has never
touched it."</p><p>感到眩暈並幾乎因恐慌而失明的羅馬努力站起來。她說：“這把左輪手槍是我的。羅西先生在兩個月前離開時把它託付給我的，從那時起他再也沒有碰過它。”</p>
<p>"Then who fired the shot that killed his Excellency, Signora?"</p><p>"那麼是誰開槍打死了他的尊嚴，夫人？"</p>
<p>"<i>I</i> did," said Roma.</p><p>"我做了，"羅馬說。</p>
<p>Instinctively the man removed his hat.</p><p>本能地，那個人摘下了他的帽子。</p>
<p>Within half-an-hour Roma had repeated her statement at the Regina
Cœli, and the Carabineers, to prevent a public scandal, had smuggled
the body of the Baron, under the cover of night, to his office in the
Palazzo Braschi, on the opposite side of the piazza.</p><p>在半小時內，羅馬在Regina Cœli重複了她的陳述，為了防止公眾醜聞，憲兵在夜色的掩護下，將男爵的屍體偷偷地運到對面廣場的Palazzo Braschi的辦公室。</p>
<h3 id="pgepubid00523">X</h3>
<p>One thought was supreme in David Rossi's mind when he left the Piazza
Navona—that the world in which he had lived was shaken to its
foundations and his life was at an end. The unhappy man wandered about
the streets without asking himself where he was going or what was to
become of him.</p><p>當大衛·羅西離開納沃納廣場時，他心中只有一個至高無上的想法，那就是他生活的世界已經動搖到底，他的生命已經結束。這個不幸的人在街上漫無目的地遊蕩，他不問自己要去哪裡，或者他的未來將如何。</p>
<p>Many feelings tore his heart, but the worst of them was anger. He had
taken the life of the Baron. The man deserved his death, and he felt no
pity for his victim and no remorse for his crime. But that he should
have killed the Minister, he who had twice stood between him and death,
he who had resisted the doctrine of violence and all his life preached
the gospel of peace, this was a degradation too shameful and abject.</p><p>`他的心被多種感情撕裂，但最痛苦的是憤怒。他奪走了男爵的生命。這個人應得他的死，他對受害者沒有同情，對他的罪行沒有悔恨。但是他竟然殺了大臣，他曾兩次在他和死亡之間，他一生都反對暴力的教條，一生都在傳播和平的福音，這種降級太可恥，太卑微了。`
</p>
<p>The woman had been the beginning and end of everything. "How I hate
her!" he thought. He was telling himself for the hundredth time that he
had never hated anybody so much before, when he became aware that he had
returned to the neighbourhood of the Piazza Navona. Without knowing what
he was doing, he had been walking round and round it.</p><p>`那個女人曾經是他一切的開始和結束。"我多麼討厭她！"他想。當他第一百次對自己說他從未如此痛恨過任何人時，他意識到他已經回到了納沃納廣場附近。不知不覺中，他一直在它周圍走來走去。`</p>
<p>He began to picture Roma as he had seen her that night. The beautiful,
mournful, pleading face, which he had not really seen while his eyes
looked on it, now rose before the eye of his mind. This caused a wave of
tenderness to pass over him against his will, and his heart, so full of
hatred, began to melt with love.</p><p>他開始描繪那晚他所見到的羅馬。美麗，悲哀，乞求的臉龐，儘管他的雙眼曾經視覺到，實際上他並未真正看見，現在卻浮現在他內心的眼前。這使他情不自禁地湧起一陣溫馨，他的心，那麼充滿著仇恨，開始因愛情而融化。</p>
<p>All the cruel words he had spoken at parting returned to his memory, and
he told himself that he had been too hasty. Instead of bearing her down
he should have listened to her<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00524" title="411"><a id="Page_411" title="411"></a></span> explanation. Before the Baron entered
the room she had been at the point of swearing that her love, and
nothing but her love, had caused her to betray him.</p><p>所有他在離別時所說的殘酷話語都湧上心頭，他告訴自己他之前的行為太過倉促。他應該要聽她解釋，而不是壓倒她。在男爵進入房間之前，她已經準備發誓，是她的愛，僅僅是她的愛，讓她背叛了他。</p>
<p>He told himself she had lied, but the thought was hell, and to escape
from it he made for the bank of the river again. This time he crossed
the bridge of St. Angelo, and passed up the Borgo to the piazza of St.
Peter's. But the piazza itself awakened a crowd of memories. It was
there in a balcony that he had first seen Roma, not plainly, but vaguely
in a summer cloud of lace and sunshades.</p><p>他告訴自己她說謊了，但這個想法讓他感到痛苦。為了逃避這個想法，他再次走向河邊。這次他穿過聖安吉洛橋，經過博爾戈，來到聖彼得廣場。但是，這個廣場本身喚起了一群群的記憶。他第一次在陽臺上看見羅馬就是在這裡，那時的夏天裡，她飄渺不定，被蕾絲和陽傘包圍。</p>
<p>Then it occurred to him that it must have been on this spot that Roma
was inspired with the plot which had ended with his betrayal. At that
thought all the bitterness of his soul returned. He told himself she
deserved every word he had said to her, and blamed himself for the
humiliation he had gone through in his attempt to make excuses for what
she had done. To the curse he had hurled at her at the last moment he
added words of fiercer anger, and though they were spoken only in his
brain, or to the dark night and the rolling river, they intensified his
fury.</p><p>於是，他突然領悟到，羅馬可能正是在這個地方想出那個陰謀，最終導致他的背叛。這個想法使他的內心再次充滿了悲痛。他告訴自己，她應得他對她說的每一句話，並責怪自己在試圖替她的行為辯解時所經歷的羞辱。他對她在最後一刻咒罵的語句又增加了更烈的怒言，儘管這些話只在他的腦海中說出，或者對著黑夜和滾滾河水說出，但這些話都加深了他的憤怒。</p>
<p>"Oh, how I hate her!" he thought.</p><p>"哦，我多麼討厭她！"他想。</p>
<p>The <i>piazza</i>, was quiet. There was a light in the Pope's windows, and a
Swiss Guard was patrolling behind the open wicket of the bronze gate to
the Vatican. A porter in gorgeous livery was yawning by the door of the
Prime Minister's palace. The man was waiting for his master. He would
<i>have</i> to wait.</p><p>`廣場上靜悄悄的。教皇的窗戶亮著燈，瑞士衛隊在開放的銅門後巡邏，那是通往梵蒂岡的入口。一位衣著華麗的門房在首相官邸的門口打哈欠。這個人正在等待他的主人。他還需要再等。`</p>
<p>The clock of St. Peter's struck one, and the silent place began to be
peopled with many shadows. The scene of the Pope's jubilee returned to
Rossi's mind. He saw and heard everything over again. The crowd, the
gorgeous procession, the Pope, and last of all his own speech. A
sardonic smile crossed his face in the darkness as he thought of what he
had said.</p><p>"聖彼得的鐘聲敲響一時，寂靜的地方開始擁入許多影子。教皇慶典的情景重新浮現在羅西的腦海中。他再次看到和聽到所有的事情。人群，華麗的遊行，教皇，最後是他自己的演講。當他想到他所說的，他的臉在黑暗中掠過了冷嘲的微笑。"</p>
<p>"Is it possible that I can ever have believed those fables?"</p><p>"我曾經相信那些寓言故事，這可能嗎？"</p>
<p>He was tramping down the Trastevere, picturing his trial for the murder
of the Baron, with Roma in the witness-box and himself in the dock. The
cold horror of it all was insupportable, and he told himself that there
was only one place in which he could escape from despair.</p><p>他正在徒步穿過特拉斯提弗雷，想像自己因謀殺男爵而受審，而羅馬則在證人席上，自己則在被告席上。這一切的冰冷恐怖是無法忍受的，他告訴自己，只有一個地方可以讓他擺脫絕望。</p>
<p>The unhappy man had begun to think of taking his own life. He had always
condemned suicide. He had even condemned<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00525" title="412"><a id="Page_412" title="412"></a></span> it in Bruno. But it was the
death grip of a man utterly borne down, and there was nothing else to
hold on to.</p><p>`這位不快樂的男人開始考慮自殺。他一直都譴責自殺。他甚至在Bruno面前譴責了自殺。但這是一個完全被壓垮的人的死亡把握，並且沒有其他東西可以抓住。`</p>
<p>The day began to break, and he turned back towards the piazza of St.
Peter's, thinking of what he intended to do and where he would do it. By
the end of the Hospital of Santo Spirito there was a little blind alley
bounded by a low wall. Below was the quick turn of the Tiber, and no
swimmer was strong enough to live long in the turbulent waters at that
point. He would do it there.</p><p>天色漸亮，他轉身回到聖彼得廣場，思考他打算做什麼以及他會在哪裡做。在聖林神醫院的盡頭，有一個被低牆所包圍的小盲巷。下面就是提伯河的急轉彎，沒有任何游泳者有足夠的力量在那個地方的湍急水流中活得長久。他會在那裡做這件事。</p>
<p>The streets were silent, and in the grey dawn, that mystic hour of
parturition when the day is being born and things are seen in places
where they do not exist, when ships sail in the sky and mountains rise
around lowland cities, David Rossi became aware in a moment that a woman
was walking on the pavement in front of him. He could almost have
believed that it was Roma, the figure was so tall and full and upright.
But the woman's dress was poorer, and she was carrying a bundle in her
arms. When he looked again he saw that her bundle was a child, and that
she was weeping over it.</p><p>街道靜悄悄的，灰色的黎明在那神秘的待產時刻裡，日子正被誕生，事物在不存在的地方被看見，船隻在天空中航行，山脈在平地城市四周升起，戴維·羅西突然意識到有個女人在他的前方走在人行道上。她的身形高大，體態豐滿，挺直，幾乎讓他相信那是羅馬。但這女人的衣服比較破舊，她在手臂上背著一個包裹。他再看時，看見她的包裹是一個孩子，她正在對孩子哭泣。</p>
<p>"Taking her little one to the hospital," he thought.</p><p>"將她的小孩帶到醫院," 他想。</p>
<p>But on turning into the little Borgo he saw that the woman went up to
the Rota, knelt before it, kissed the child again and again, put it in
the cradle, pulled the bell, and then, crying bitterly, hastened away.</p><p>但當他轉入小博爾戈時，他看見那個女人走到羅塔前，跪在那裡，一次又一次吻著孩子，把孩子放在搖籃裡，拉響鐘，然後大哭著匆忙離開。</p>
<p>Rossi remembered his own mother, and a great tide of simple human
tenderness swept over him. What he had seen the woman do was what his
mother had done thirty-five years before. He saw it all as by a mystic
flash of light, which looked back into the past.</p><p>羅西記起了他自己的母親，一股極簡單的人性慈愛之情湧上心頭。他看到的女人所作的，便是他的母親在三十五年前做過的事。他以一種神秘的閃光看到了這一切，那是一種映射回過去的光芒。</p>
<p>Suddenly it occurred to him that the Rota had been long since closed,
and therefore it was physically impossible that anybody could have put a
child into the cradle. Then he remembered that he had not heard the
bell, or the woman's footsteps, or the sound of her voice when she wept.</p><p>`突然他想起來，旋轉搖籃早已經關閉許久，
因此實際上不可能有任何人把孩子放入搖籃中。然後他想起他並未聽到鈴聲，
或是那個女人的腳步聲，或是她在哭泣時的聲音。`</p>
<p>He stopped and looked back. The woman was returning in the direction of
the piazza of St. Peter's. By an impulse which he could not resist he
followed her, overtook her, and looked into her face.</p><p>他停下來回頭看。那個女人正在返回聖彼得廣場的方向。他忍不住跟著她，趕上她，並看著她的臉。</p>
<p>Again he thought he was looking at Roma. There was the same nobility in
the beautiful features, the same sweetness in the tremulous mouth, the
same grandeur in the great dark eyes. But he knew perfectly who it was.
It was his mother.<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00526" title="413"><a id="Page_413" title="413"></a></span></p><p>他再次認為自己正在凝視羅馬。那裡有相同的高貴在美麗的面容中，相同的甜美在曖昧的嘴巴，相同的宏偉在那雙深色的眼睛。但他完全知道那是誰。那是他的母親。</p>
<p>It did not seem strange that his mother should be there. From her home
in heaven she had come down to watch over her son on earth. She had
always been watching over him. And now that he too was betrayed and
lost, now that he too was broken-hearted and alone....</p><p>`他並不覺得母親在那裡很奇怪。她從天堂的家中下來，監視著她在地球上的兒子。她一直在看著他。現在他也被背叛和迷失，現在他也心碎和孤單...`</p>
<p>He was utterly unmanned. "Mother! Mother! I am coming to you! Every door
is closed against me, and I have nowhere to go to for refuge. I am
coming!... I am coming!"</p><p>"他完全失去了自我。"母親！母親！我要去找你！所有的門對我都關閉了，我沒有避難之處。我要去找你！...我要去找你！""</p>
<p>Then the spirit paused, and pointing to the bronze gate of the Vatican,
said, with infinite tenderness:</p><p>"然後，精神暫停了下來，並指向梵蒂岡的銅門，以無比的溫柔說："
</p>
<p>"Go there!"</p><p>"去那裡!"</p>
<hr class="major"/>
<div style="margin: auto; text-align: center; padding-top: 1em; padding-bottom: 1em;">
<a id="PART_NINE_THE_PEOPLE"></a>
<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00527" title="414"><a id="Page_414" title="414"></a></span>
<h2 id="pgepubid00528">PART NINE—THE PEOPLE</h2>
</div>
<h3 id="pgepubid00529">I</h3>
<p>The Pope awoke next morning in the dreary hour of cock-crow, and rang
for his valet while he was still in bed. When the valet came he was
greatly agitated.</p><p>教宗在鬼魅般的雞鳴時分醒來，還在床上就按鈴叫來他的僕人。當僕人來到時，他非常慌亂。</p>
<p>"What's amiss, Gaetanino?" said the Pope.</p><p>"蓋坦尼諾，出了什麼事？"教皇說。</p>
<p>"A madman, your Holiness," said the valet. "They wanted me to awaken
your Holiness, and I wouldn't do it. A madman is down at the bronze
gate, and insists on seeing you."</p><p>"`你的聖權瘋了，"管家說。"他們讓我去叫醒您，而我沒有這麼做。有個瘋子在銅門下，堅持要見您。"`</p>
<p>At this moment the Maestro di Camera came into the room. He also was
greatly agitated.</p><p>此刻，主持室的老師走進了房間。他也非常激動。</p>
<p>"What is this about some poor madman at the bronze gate?" asked the
Pope.</p><p>"這是關於在銅門那裡的某個可憐的瘋子的事情嗎?"教皇問道。</p>
<p>"I have come to tell your Holiness," said the master of the household.
"The man declares he is pursued, and demands sanctuary."</p><p>"我來是為了告訴你的聖善,"家庭的主人說。
"那個人宣稱他被追趕，並要求庇護。"</p>
<p>"Who is he?"</p><p>"他是誰？"</p>
<p>"He says he will give his name to the Holy Father only; but his
face...."</p><p>"他說他只會將他的名字告訴聖父；但他的臉......"</p>
<p>"The man's mad," said the valet.</p><p>"這個人瘋了，"僕人說。</p>
<p>"Be quiet, Gaetanino."</p><p>"保持安靜，Gaetanino。"</p>
<p>"His face," continued the Maestro di Camera, "is known to the Swiss
Guard, and when they sent up word...."</p><p>"他的臉孔，"駐宮大臣繼續說，"是瑞士衛隊所熟知的，當他們送上訊息...."</p>
<p>The Pope sat up and said, "Is it perhaps..."</p><p>教皇坐起來說：“也許是…”</p>
<p>"It is, your Holiness."</p><p>"這就是，您的聖 高尚."</p>
<p>"Where is he now?"</p><p>"他現在在哪裡？"</p>
<p>"He has forced his way in as far as the Sala Clementina, and nothing but
physical force...."</p><p>"他已經強行進入到克萊門蒂娜大廳，除了物理力量之外，什麼都沒有...."</p>
<p>Sounds of voices raised in dispute could be heard in a distant room. The
Pope listened and said:</p><p>"在遠處的房間裡，可以聽到人們激烈爭論的聲音。教皇聽到後說："</p>
<p>"Let the man come up immediately."</p><p>"讓那個人立刻上來。"</p>
<p>"Here, your Holiness?"</p><p>"這裡，您的聖下？"</p>
<p>"Here."</p><p>"這裡。"</p>
<p>The Maestro di Camera had hardly gone from the Pope's<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00530" title="415"><a id="Page_415" title="415"></a></span> bedroom when the
Secretary of State entered it with hasty steps.</p><p>當室內樂指揮剛離開教皇的臥室時，國務秘書急忙進入了它。</p>
<p>"Your Holiness," he said, "you will not allow yourself to receive this
person? It is sufficiently clear that he must have escaped from the
police during the night, probably by the help of confederates, and to
shelter him will be to come into collision with the civil authorities."</p><p>"閣下,"他說，"你不會允許自己接待這個人嗎？很明顯，他必須是在夜晚逃脫了警方的追捕，可能是在同黨的幫助下，收留他將意味著與公權力衝突。"</p>
<p>"The young man demands sanctuary, your Eminence, and whatever the
consequences we have no right to refuse it."</p><p>"這位年輕人要求庇護，你的聖潔，無論結果如何，我們都無權拒絕。"</p>
<p>"But sanctuary is obsolete, your Holiness."</p><p>"但是庇護所已經過時了，你的聖潔。"</p>
<p>"Nothing can be obsolete that is of divine institution, your Eminence."</p><p>"屬於神聖機構的東西不可能過時，尊敬的主教。"</p>
<p>"But, your Holiness, it can only exist by virtue of concession from the
State, and the present relation of the Church to the State of Italy..."</p><p>"但是，您的聖潔，它只能依賴州的讓步而存在，而教會與義大利州現在的關係……"</p>
<p>"Your Eminence, I will ask you to let the young man come in."</p><p>"閣下，我會請您讓那個年輕人進來。"</p>
<p>"Your Holiness, I beg, I pray, reflect..."</p><p>"您的聖潔，我懇求，我祈禱，反思..."</p>
<p>"Let the young man come in, your Em..."</p><p>"請讓那位年輕人進來，你的殿下..."</p>
<p>The Pope had not finished when the words were struck out of his mouth by
an apparition which appeared at his bedroom door. It was that of a young
man, whose eyes were wild, whose nostrils were quivering, and whose
clothes hung about him in rags as if they had been torn in a recent
struggle. He had a look of despair and suffering, yet it was the same to
the Pope at that moment as if he were looking at his own features in a
glass.</p><p>教皇還沒有說完，他的話語就被一個出現在他臥室門口的鬼影給擊出。那是一個年輕男子，他的眼睛野性而狂放，他的鼻孔在顫抖，他的衣服像是在最近的一場鬥爭中被撕破的破布一樣掛在他身上。他的臉上流露出絕望和痛苦，然而在那一刻，對教皇來說就像是在一面鏡子中看到自己的面孔一樣。</p>
<p>The young man was surrounded by Swiss Guards, and the Maestro di Camera
pushed in ahead of him. Coming face to face with the Pope propped up in
his bed, the loud tones on which he was protesting died in his throat,
and he stood in silence on the threshold of the room.</p><p>這個年輕人被瑞士衛兵圍繞，而且室內主管先他一步衝了進來。當他面對著依靠在床上的教皇時，他正在抗議的響亮語調在他的喉嚨裡消失，然後他就在房間門口靜默地站著。</p>
<p>The Pope was the first to speak.</p><p>教皇是第一個開口的。</p>
<p>"What is it you wish to say to me, my son?"</p><p>"你想對我說什麼，我的兒子？"</p>
<p>The young man seemed to recover his self-possession, but without a
genuflexion or even a bow of the head, and with a slightly defiant
manner, he said, "My name is David Leone. They call me Rossi, because
that was my mother's name, and they said I had no right to my father's.
I am a Roman, and I have been two months abroad. For ten years I have
worked for the people, and now I am denounced and betrayed to the
police. Three days ago I was arrested on returning to Italy,<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00531" title="416"><a id="Page_416" title="416"></a></span> and
to-night by the help of friends I have escaped from the Carabineers. But
every gate is closed against me, and I cannot get out of Rome. This is
the Vatican, and the Vatican is sanctuary. Will you take me in?"</p><p>這個年輕人似乎恢復了他的鎮定，但他沒有跪下或者低頭，他帶著一種略帶挑釁的態度說："我的名字是大衛·萊奧內。他們叫我羅西，因為那是我母親的名字，他們說我沒有權利用我的父親的名字。我是羅馬人，我已經出國兩個月了。十年來，我一直為人民工作，現在我被檢舉和背叛到了警察那裡。三天前，我回到義大利時被逮捕，今晚在朋友們的幫助下我逃脫了憲兵的圍攻。但每個門都對我關閉，我無法離開羅馬。這裡是梵蒂岡，梵蒂岡是庇護所。你會收留我嗎？"</p>
<p>The Pope looked at the Swiss Guard, and said in a tremulous voice,
"Gentlemen, you will take this young man to your own quarters, and see
that no Carabineer lays hand on him without my knowledge and consent."</p><p>教皇看著瑞士衛兵，顫抖的聲音說道，“先生們，你們將把這個年輕人帶到你們自己的住處，並確保在未經我知道和同意的情況下，沒有任何一個卡拉賓槍手對他動手。”</p>
<p>"Your Holiness!" protested the Cardinal Secretary, but the Pope raised
his hand and silenced him.</p><p>"聖父！"秘書樞機反對，但教皇舉手讓他安靜。</p>
<p>Rossi's defiant manner left him. "Wait," he said. "Before you decide to
take me in you must know more about me, and what I am charged with. I am
the Deputy Rossi who is said to have instigated the late riots. The
warrant for my arrest accuses me of treason and an attempt on the person
of the late King. It is false, but you must look at it for yourself.
Here it is."</p><p>“羅西的挑釁態度消失了。“等一下，”他說，“在你決定抓我之前，你必須更瞭解我，以及我被指控的事情。我是被說煽動了最近暴亂的羅西代理人。我的逮捕令指控我叛國和謀害已故國王。這是假的，但你必須自己看看。這就是。”</p>
<p>So saying he plunged into his pocket for the paper, and then said, "It
is gone! I remember now—I flung it at the feet of my betrayer."</p><p>"說著他探手進口袋尋找那張紙，然後說，'它不見了！我現在記起來了—我把它扔在我背叛者的腳下。'"</p>
<p>"Gentlemen," said the Pope, still addressing the Swiss Guard, "if the
civil authorities attempt to arrest this young man, you may tell them
they can only do so by giving a written promise of safety for life and
limb."</p><p>"先生們，"教皇仍然對瑞士衛隊說道，"如果民事當局試圖逮捕這個年輕人，你們可以告訴他們，只有提供了對其生命和肢體的書面保證後，他們才能這麼做。"</p>
<p>Rossi's wild eyes began to melt. "You are very good," he said, "and I
will not deceive you. Although I am innocent of the crime they charge me
with, I have broken the law of God and of my country, and if you have
any fear of the consequences you must turn me out while there is still
time."</p><p>"羅西的狂野雙眼開始變得柔和。他說：“你人很好，我不會騙你。雖然我無辜於他們指控我犯下的罪行，但我確實違反了神和我的國家的法律。如果你擔心後果，你必須在還有時間的時候將我趕出去。”</p>
<p>"Gentlemen," said the Pope, "instead of taking this young man to your
quarters, let him be lodged in the empty apartment below my own, which
was formerly occupied by the Secretary of State."</p><p>"先生們,"教皇說，"不要把這個年輕人帶到你們的住宿，讓他住在我自己空的公寓下面，那個公寓以前是國家秘書的住處。"</p>
<p>Rossi broke down utterly and fell to his knees. The Pope raised two
fingers and blessed him.</p><p>"羅西完全崩潰，跪倒在地上。教皇舉起兩根手指，祝福他。"</p>
<p>"Go to your room and rest, my son, and God grant you a little repose."</p><p>"去你的房間休息，我的兒子，願神賜予你一點休息。"</p>
<p>"Father!"</p><p>"神父！"</p>
<p>By an impulse he could not resist, Rossi had risen from his knees, taken
two or three steps forward, knelt again by the side of the bed, and put
his lips to the Pope's hand.</p><p>"他無法抗拒的衝動驅使著，Rossi從膝部站起來，向前邁出兩三步，再次跪在床邊，並吻了教皇的手。"</p>
<p>With wet eyes that gleamed under his grey brows the<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00532" title="417"><a id="Page_417" title="417"></a></span> Pope followed the
young man out until, surrounded by the Swiss Guard, he had passed from
the room. Then he rose and turned into his private chapel for his early
Mass.</p><p>"在他灰色的眉毛下，淚水閃亮的教皇看著那年輕人離開，直到被瑞士衛隊包圍著從房間裡走出去。然後，他起身進入他的私人小教堂，為他的早晨彌撒做準備。"</p>
<h3 id="pgepubid00533">II</h3>
<p>Less than half-an-hour afterwards a rumour swept through the Vatican
like the gust of whistling wind that goes before a storm. The Pope met
it as he was coming from Mass.</p><p>不到半小時後，一個謠言像風暴前的嘯風一樣席捲了整個梵蒂岡。教皇在從彌撒中出來時遇到了這個謠言。</p>
<p>"What is it, Gaetanino?" he asked.</p><p>"他問，'蓋坦尼諾，怎麼了？'"</p>
<p>"Something about an assassination, your Holiness," said the valet, and
the Pope stood as if thunderstruck, for he thought of Rossi and the
King.</p><p>"您的聖潔，是關於暗殺的事情，"男僕說，教皇彷彿被雷擊到一樣，因他想到了羅西和國王。</p>
<p>After a while the vague report became more definite. It was not the King
but the Prime Minister who had been assassinated.</p><p>過了一會兒，這個模糊的報告變得更加確定。被暗殺的不是國王，而是首相。</p>
<p>The Pope's private room began to fill with pallid faces. The Cardinal
Secretary was there, the Maestro di Camera, and at length the little
Majordomo. By this time a special message had reached the Vatican from
one of its watchers outside, and they were able to discuss the
circumstances. The Prime Minister had been found dead in his official
palace in the Piazza Navona. He had dined at the Quirinal and remained
there for the opening of the State Ball, therefore he could not have
reached the Palazzo Braschi before eleven or twelve o'clock. Two shots
had been heard about midnight, and the body had been discovered in the
early morning.</p><p>教皇的私人房間開始出現蒼白的臉孔。樞機秘書在場，教宮主教和小主教也在。此時，一則特別的訊息已經從一位外面的觀察者傳達到梵蒂岡，他們能夠討論這個情況。首相已被發現死在他的官方宮殿內，該宮殿位於納沃那廣場。他在奎里納萊宮（Quirinal）用晚餐並留下來參加國家舞會的開幕，因此他不可能在十一點或十二點之前抵達巴拉齊•巴拉奇宮（Palazzo Braschi）。大約午夜時分聽到了兩聲槍聲，然後在清晨發現了他的屍體。</p>
<p>The Pope listened and said nothing.</p><p>教皇聽著並未說話。</p>
<p>The Cardinal Secretary told another story. The Deputy Rossi, who had
been brought to Rome by the train from Genoa, which arrived punctually
at 11.45, had been rescued by a gang of ruffians at the station. The
rescue had been prearranged, and the man had jumped into a coupé and
driven off at a gallop. The coupé had gone down the Via Nazionale, and a
few minutes before twelve o'clock it had been seen to turn into the
Piazza Navona. It was by the accident that the Carabineers had followed
in pursuit of the escaped prisoner that the murder had been discovered.</p><p>樞機秘書長講述了另一個故事。來自熱那亞的羅西副秘書，憑藉那輛早上11點45分準時抵達羅馬的火車出現在此地，他在車站被一群流氓救走。這次救援是事先安排好的，這個男人跳上一輛轎車，然後快速驅車離開。這個轎車沿著國家大道駛下，然後在將近12點的時候被看到轉進納沃納廣場。正是由於碰巧有憲兵跟著這個逃犯的軌跡追趕，才發現了這場謀殺。</p>
<p>Still the Pope said nothing. But his head was held down, and his soul
was full of trouble.<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00534" title="418"><a id="Page_418" title="418"></a></span></p><p>然而教皇仍然一言不發。但他的頭低垂，靈魂充滿痛苦。</p>
<p>The group of prelates looked into each other's faces with suspicion and
terror. A storm was gathering round the Vatican, and who could say what
would happen if the Pope persisted in the course he had just taken? At
length the Cardinal Secretary approached his Holiness, and said, with a
deep genuflexion:</p><p>`一群主教懷疑和恐慌地互相對視。風暴正在梵蒂岡周圍聚集，如果教宗堅持他剛剛開始的行動，誰知道會發生什麼？最後，樞機主教秘書走近他的聖人，並用深深的膝彎說:`</p>
<p>"Holy Father, I fear the tenderness of your fatherly heart has betrayed
you into sheltering a criminal. It is not merely that the man Rossi is a
revolutionary accused of an attempt to overthrow the Government of his
country. There cannot be a question that he is a murderer also, and if
you keep him here you will violate the law of every civilised State and
expose yourself to the condemnation of the world."</p><p>"聖父，我擔心您慈愛的父心已經欺騙您，讓您庇護了一個罪犯。這個人羅西不僅是被控試圖推翻他的國家政府的革命者，而且無疑是一個殺人犯。如果您讓他留在這裡，您將違反每個文明國家的法律並使自己遭到世界的譴責。"</p>
<p>The Pope did not reply. Other words in another voice were drumming in
his ears with a new and terrible meaning: "I have broken the law of God
and of my country, and if you have any fear of the consequences you must
turn me out while there is still time."</p><p>教皇沒有回答。其他的話在他的耳邊以另一種聲音重複著，帶著新的和可怕的意義： "我已經違反了上帝和我的國家的法律，如果你對後果感到恐懼，你必須在還有時間的時候把我趕出去。"</p>
<p>"Your Holiness will also remember," said the Cardinal Secretary, "that
by the regulation of the civil authorities which guarantees to the Holy
Father the rights of sovereignty, it is expressly stated that he holds
no powers which are contrary to the laws of the State and of public
order. Therefore to conceal and protect a criminal would be of itself to
commit a crime, and God alone can say what the consequence might be to
the Vatican and to the Church."</p><p>"你的聖潔也會記得，" 樞機秘書說，"根據民事當局規定，這些規定保護著教宗的主權權利，其中明確地說明他沒有任何與國家法律和公共秩序相違背的權力。因此，藏匿和保護罪犯本身就是犯罪，只有上帝可以說這對梵蒂岡和教會可能產生什麼後果。"</p>
<p>"Oh, silence! silence!" cried the Pope, lifting a face full of
suffering. "Leave me! leave me!"</p><p>"噢，安靜！安靜！"教皇痛苦地抬起臉來，喊道。"讓我一個人！讓我一個人！"</p>
<p>The Cardinal Secretary and his colleagues bowed to the Pope and backed
out of the room. A moment afterwards the young Monsignor entered. He was
bringing a newspaper in his hand, for as Cameriere Participante he was
one of the Pope's readers.</p><p>樞機秘書和他的同事向教皇鞠躬並退出房間。 稍後，年輕的教宗進來了。 他手中拿著一份報紙，作為參與的侍從，他是教皇的讀者之一。</p>
<p>"Holy Father," he said in his nervous voice, "I bring you bad news."</p><p>"聖父,"他以緊張的聲音說，"我帶來了壞消息。"</p>
<p>"What is it, my son?" said the Pope, with a pitiful expression.</p><p>"你有什麼事，我兒？"教皇以可憐的表情說。</p>
<p>"The assassin of the Prime Minister turns out to be some one..."</p><p>"首相的刺客竟然是某人..."</p>
<p>"Well?"</p><p>"那麼？"</p>
<p>"Some one known to your Holiness."<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00535" title="419"><a id="Page_419" title="419"></a></span></p><p>"您的聖蔵所認識的某一人。"</p>
<p>"Don't be afraid for the Holy Father.... Tell me, Monsignor."</p><p>"不要為教宗擔心.... 告訴我，樞機。"</p>
<p>"It is a lady, your Holiness."</p><p>"這是一位女士，您的聖潔。"</p>
<p>"A lady?"</p><p>"一位女士？"</p>
<p>"She has been arrested and has confessed."</p><p>"她已經被逮捕並且已經供認了。"</p>
<p>"Confessed?"</p><p>"已告解?"</p>
<p>"It is Donna Roma Volonna, your Holiness. She shot the Prime Minister
with a revolver, and her motive was revenge."</p><p>"那是唐娜·羅馬·沃洛納，聖父。她用手槍射殺了首相，動機是為了報仇。"</p>
<p>The Pope lifted his head, and looked at the young Monsignor with an
expression which no language can describe. Relief, joy, shame, and
remorse were mingled in one flash on his broken and bankrupt face. He
was silent for a moment, and then he said:</p><p>教皇抬起頭，以無法言說的表情望著年輕的神父。安慰、喜悅、羞愧和悔恨在他破碎而破產的臉上交織一閃。他沉默了一會，然後說：</p>
<p>"Say nothing of this to the young man in the room below. If he is in
sanctuary let him also be in peace. Whatever he is to hear of the world
without must come through me alone. Give that as my order to everybody.
And may God who has had mercy on His servant be good to us all!"</p><p>"不要對下面房間的年輕人說起這件事。如果他在聖所，也讓他平靜無波。他所能聽到的外面世界的任何訊息必須單獨透過我來傳達。將這當作我的命令告訴大家。願神憐憫他的僕人，對我們所有人都善良！"</p>
<h3 id="pgepubid00536">III</h3>
<p>In penance for the joy he had felt on learning that Roma, not Rossi, had
assassinated the Minister, the Pope became her advocate in his own mind,
and watched for an opportunity to save her. Every day for a week
Monsignor Mario read the newspapers to the Pope that he might be fully
abreast of what occurred.</p><p>`為了對於得知是羅馬而非羅西刺殺了部長的喜悅進行懺悔，教皇在心中為她進行辯護，並尋找機會去救她。蒙塞納裡奧·馬裡奧一整個星期每天都會給教皇讀報紙，使他能充分了解事情的發展。`</p>
<p>The first morning the journals merely reported the crime. The headless
one with the fearful hands had stalked over the city in the middle of
night in the shape of incarnate murder, and the citizens of Rome would
awake to hear the news with consternation, horror, and shame.</p><p>`第一天早上，報紙只是報導了這起犯罪。頭顱欠缺、手部可怕的那個人，在半夜以具體殺人犯的形象在城市中巡迴，羅馬的市民將醒來聽到這個訊息，感到驚愕、恐慌和恥辱。`</p>
<p>The evening journals contained obituary articles and appreciations of
the dead man's character. He was the Richelieu of Italy, the chivalrous
and devoted servant of his country, and one of the noblest figures of
the age.</p><p>`晚間的報紙刊登了訃告文章和對死者品格的讚美。他是義大利的黎塞留，是他國家的騎士，並且是這個時代的最高貴的人物。`</p>
<p>"Extras" were published giving descriptions of the city under the first
effects of the terrible news. Rome was literally draped in mourning. It
was a forest of flags at half-mast. All public buildings, embassies,
cafés, and places of public amusement were closed.<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00537" title="420"><a id="Page_420" title="420"></a></span></p><p>"額外的"報導描述了這個城市在第一次收到這可怕消息時的狀態。羅馬實際上被悲傷所覆蓋。到處都是降半旗的旗幟，像是森林一般。所有的公共建築、大使館、咖啡廳和娛樂場所都已關閉。</p>
<p>The Pope was puzzled, and calling a member of his Noble Guard (it was
the Count de Raymond) he sent him out into the city to see.</p><p>教皇感到困惑，他召集了他的貴族衛隊的一員（那是雷蒙德伯爵），派他去城市中查看。</p>
<p>When the Count de Raymond returned he told another story. The people,
while deploring the crime, were not surprised at it. Baron Bonelli had
refused to understand the wants of the nation. He had treated the people
as slaves and shed their blood in the streets. Where such opinions were
not openly expressed there was a gloomy silence. Groups could be seen
under the great lamps in the Corso reading the evening papers. Sometimes
a man would mount a chair in front of the Café Aragno and read aloud
from the latest "extra." The crowd would listen, stand a moment, and
then disperse.</p><p>當雷蒙德伯爵回來時，他又說了一個故事。人們對這種罪行感到遺憾，但並不感到驚訝。邦內利男爵拒絕理解國家的需求。他把人們當成奴隸對待，並在街頭流血。在這種觀點沒有被公開表達的地方，有著憂鬱的沉默。人們可以看到在科爾索大路的大燈下有人在閱讀晚間的報紙。有時一個人會在Aragno咖啡館前面的椅子上坐下來，並大聲讀出最新的“特別報道”。人群會聚集著聽，站會兒，然後就散去了。</p>
<p>Next day the journals were full of the assassin. Many things were
incomprehensible in her character, unless you approached it with the
right key. Young and with a fatal beauty, fantastic, audacious, a great
coquette, always giving out a perfume of seduction and feminine ruin,
she was one of those women who live in the atmosphere of infamous
intrigue, and her last victim had been her first friend.</p><p>"隔天的報紙都充滿了有關刺客的報導。如果你沒有正確的解讀角度，她的性格中有許多事情是無法理解的。年輕而具有致命之美，她孤芳自賞，膽大如狐，是個大 flirt，總是散發出誘惑和女人的毀滅的香氣，她是那些生活在惡名昭彰的陰謀氛圍中的女性之一，而她的最後一個受害者就是她的初次朋友。"
</p>
<p>Once more the Pope was puzzled, and he sent out his Noble Guard again.
The Count de Raymond returned to say that in corners of the cafés people
spoke of the Baron as a dead dog, and said that if Donna Roma had killed
him she did <i>a</i> good act, and God would reward her.</p><p>`再一次，教皇感到困惑，他再次派出了他的貴族警衛隊。雷蒙德伯爵返回時表示，咖啡館的角落裡的人們都在把男爵當作死狗談論，他們說如果多納·羅馬殺了他，那是一件好事，上帝會獎賞她。`</p>
<p>Parliament opened after its Easter vacation, and the Count de Raymond
was sent in plain clothes to its first sitting. The galleries and
lobbies were filled, and there was suppressed but intense excitement.
Rumour said the Government had resigned, and that the King, who was in
despair, had been unable to form another ministry. A leader of the Right
was heard to say that Donna Roma had done more for the people in a day
than the Opposition could have accomplished in a hundred years. "If
these agitators on the Left have any qualities of statesmen, now's their
time to show it," he said. But what would Parliament say about the dead
man? The President entered and took his chair. After the minutes had
been read there was a moment's silence. Not a word was uttered, not a
voice was raised. "Let us pass on to the next business," said the
President.</p><p>"議會在復活節假期後開始，雷蒙德伯爵被派遣以普通的衣著出席首次會議。附設的陽臺和走道都充滿了人，存在著被壓抑卻劇烈的興奮。謠傳政府已經辭職，孤立無援的國王也無力再組一個新的內閣。右派的一位領袖聽說羅馬唐娜一天為人民做的事情，比反對派一百年做的都還要多。他說，如果這些左派的激進分子有任何的政治家的品質，現在就應該展現出來。但議會會如何看待那個已經去世的人呢？總裁進來坐下在他的座位上。議事錄讀完後，會場瞬間安靜下來。一句話也沒有，一個聲音也沒有。"讓我們直接進行到下一個議題，" 總裁說。"
</p>
<p>The assizes happened to be in session, and the opening of<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00538" title="421"><a id="Page_421" title="421"></a></span> the trial was
reported on the following day. When the prisoner was asked whether she
pleaded guilty or not guilty, she answered guilty. The court, however,
requested her to reconsider her plea, assigned her an advocate, and went
through all the formalities of an ordinary case. A principal object of
the prosecution had been to discover accomplices, but the prisoner
continued to protest that she had none. She neither denied nor
extenuated the crime, and she acknowledged it to have been premeditated.
When asked to state her motive, she said it was hatred of the methods
adopted by the dead man to wipe out political opponents, and a
determination to send to the bar of the Almighty one who had placed
himself above human law.</p><p>審判正進行中，隔天審訊的開始就被公告出來了。當問及被告是否認罪時，她回答是有罪。然而，法庭要求她重新考慮她的答辯，為她指派了一位辯護律師，並遵守所有常規案件的正式程序。檢察方的主要目的是揭露共犯，但被告堅稱她沒有共犯。她既沒有否認也沒有減輕罪行，並承認是有預謀的。當被問及其動機時，她表示是因為對已故的男子消滅政敵的手段的憎恨，並決定送一個已將自己凌駕於人類法律之上的人去見上帝。</p>
<p>The Pope sent his Noble Guard to the next day's hearing of the trial,
and when the Count de Raymond came back his eyes were red and swollen.
The beautiful and melancholy face of the young prisoner sitting behind
iron bars that were like the cage of a wild beast had made a pitiful
impression. Her calmness, her total self-abandonment, the sublime
feelings that even in the presence of a charge of murder expressed
themselves in her sweet voice, had moved everybody to tears. Then the
prosecution had been so debasing in its questions about her visits to
the Vatican and in its efforts to implicate David Rossi by means of a
letter addressed to the prison at Milan.</p><p>教皇派他的將領出席隔天的審判，而當雷蒙德伯爵回來時，他的眼睛紅腫而混濁。年輕的囚犯微笑而憂鬱的臉孔坐在鐵條後，就像野獸的籠子，給人留下了深深的印象。她的淡定，她的自我放棄，她在謀殺指控面前還能表現出來的崇高情感，都讓每個人流下了淚水。然後，檢察官的問話針對她對梵蒂岡的訪問以及試圖利用寄至米蘭監獄的信件牽涉到David Rossi的努力，這種行為是多麼的卑鄙和可恥。</p>
<p>"But <i>I</i> did it," the young prisoner had said again and again with
steadfast fervour, only deepening to alarm when evidence concerning the
revolver seemed to endanger the absent man.</p><p>"但是我做了這件事，"年輕的囚犯一次又一次以堅定的熱情說，只有當與手槍有關的證據似乎威脅到不在場的男子時，他才感到驚恐加重。</p>
<p>There had been some conflicting medical evidence as to whether the death
could have been due to a pistol-shot, and certain astounding disclosures
of police corruption and prison tyranny. A judge of the Military
Tribunal had given startling proof of the Prime Minister's complicity in
an infamous case, ending with the suicide of the prisoner's man-servant
in open court, and an old Garibaldian among the people, packed away
beyond the barrier, had cried out:</p><p>`有一些不一的醫學證據顯示，死亡是否可能由於手槍射擊，以及警察腐敗和監獄暴政的一些令人震驚的揭露。軍事法庭的一位法官提供了驚人的證據，證明首相在一個醜聞案件中有牽涉，該案件以囚犯的男僕在公開法庭上自殺為結，而人們中的一位老加里波第人被封鎖在障礙物之後，他大喊出聲：`</p>
<p>"He was just a black-dyed villain, and God Almighty save us from such
another."</p><p>"他只不過是個心黑如墨的惡棍，願全能的上帝保佑我們不再遇到像他這樣的人。"</p>
<p>This laying bare of the machinery of statecraft had made a great
sensation, and even the judge on the bench, being a just man, had
lowered his eyes before the accused at the bar. As the prisoner was
taken back to prison past the Castle of<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00539" title="422"><a id="Page_422" title="422"></a></span> St. Angelo and the Military
College, the crowds had cheered her again and again, and sitting in an
open car with a Carabineer by her side, she had looked frightened at
finding herself a heroine where she had expected to be a malefactor.</p><p>`這種對國家機器的公開露骨讓人震撼，甚至連法庭的法官，作為一個公正的人，也在被告面前低下了頭。 當囚犯被帶回監獄經過聖安吉洛城堡和軍事學校時，人群多次為她歡呼，而坐在開放的汽車中，旁邊是一名憲兵，她看起來對於在預計成為罪犯的地方突然成為英雄感到恐慌。`</p>
<p>"Poor child!" said the Pope. "But who knows the hidden designs of
Providence, whether manifest in the path of His justice or His mercy?"</p><p>"可憐的孩子！"教皇說道。 "但誰知道上帝神秘的安排，無論是在他的公義路徑上，還是他的慈悲路徑上？"</p>
<p>Next day, when the Noble Guard returned to the Vatican, he could
scarcely speak to tell his story. The trial had ended and the prisoner
was condemned. Reluctantly the judge had sentenced her to life-long
imprisonment. She had preserved the same lofty demeanour to the last,
thanked her advocate, and even the judge and jury, and said they had
taken the only true view of her act. Her great violet eyes were
extraordinarily dilated and dark, and her face was transparent as
alabaster.</p><p>隔日，當貴族衛隊返回梵蒂岡時，他幾乎說不出話來講述他的故事。審判已經結束，被告人被判定有罪。法官無奈地將她判處終身監禁。直到最後，她仍保持著崇高的風度，感謝她的辯護律師，甚至還有法官和陪審團，並表示他們對她的行為有了唯一正確的看法。她巨大的紫羅蘭色的眼睛異常地放大和變暗，她的臉透明如同雪花般的石膏。</p>
<p>"You have done right to condemn me," she said, "but God, who sees all,
will weigh my conduct in the scale of His holy justice." The entire
court was in tears.</p><p>"你們譴責我是對的," 她說, "但是看見一切的上帝將會將我的行為在他的神聖公正的天平上秤量." 整個法庭的人都在哭。</p>
<p>When the time came to remove the lady the crowd ran out to see the last
of her. There was a van and a company of Carabineers, but the emotion of
the people mastered them and they tried to rescue the prisoner. This was
near the Castle of St. Angelo, and the gates being open, the military
rushed her into the fortress for safety. She was there now.</p><p>當時機成熟，要帶走這位女士時，人群湧出來要見她最後一面。現場有一輛貨車和一隊憲兵，但人們的情緒征服了他們，他們試圖解救囚犯。這是在聖安吉洛城堡附近，由於城門開著，軍隊把她趕進了城堡以保證安全。她現在就在那裡。</p>
<p>The Pope sent his Noble Guard to the Castle of St. Angelo to inquire
after the prisoner, and the young soldier brought back a pitiful tale.
Donna Roma was ill and could not be removed at present. Her nervous
system was completely exhausted and nobody could say what might not
occur. Nevertheless, she was very brave, very sweet and very cheerful,
and everybody was in love with her. The Castle was occupied by a brigade
of Military Engineers, and the Major in command was a good Catholic and
a faithful son of the Holy Father. He had lodged his prisoner in the
bright apartments that used to be the Pope's, although the prison for
persons committed by the Penal Tribunals was a dark cell in the middle
of the Maschio. She had expressed a desire to be received into the
Church, and had asked the Major to send for Father Pifferi.</p><p>教皇派他的貴族衛隊去聖天使城堡查問囚犯的訊息，那位年輕的士兵帶回了一個令人悲慘的故事。 唐娜·羅馬病得很重，暫時不能移動。她的神經系統完全耗盡，沒有人能說出什麼可能發生。然而，她非常勇敢，非常甜蜜，非常快樂，每個人都愛她。該城堡由一個軍事工程師旅佔據，指揮的少校是一位虔誠的天主教徒，他是教皇的忠實兒子。他已經將他的囚犯安置在曾經是教皇的明亮的公寓中，儘管由刑事法庭判處的囚犯的監獄是Maschio的中心的一個黑暗的細胞。她表示想要加入教會，並要求少校派人去找Father Pifferi。</p>
<p>"Go back and tell the Major that I will go instead," said the Pope.</p><p>"回去告訴少校，我將親自去。"這是教宗所說的。</p>
<p>"Holy Father!"<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00540" title="423"><a id="Page_423" title="423"></a></span></p><p>"教宗聖父！"</p>
<p>"Ask him if the secret passage between the Vatican and the Castle of St.
Angelo can still be opened up."</p><p>"請問他，梵蒂岡與聖安吉洛城堡之間的秘密通道是否仍能開啟。"</p>
<p>Count de Raymond returned to say that the Major would open it. In the
present political crisis no one could tell what a day would bring forth,
and in any case he would take the consequences.</p><p>"雷蒙德伯爵回來說準將將會開啟它。在當前的政治危機中，沒人能告訴你一天會帶來什麼，無論如何，他會承擔後果的。"
</p>
<p>The Noble Guard held four unopened letters in his hand. They were
addressed to the Honourable Rossi in a woman's writing, and had been
re-addressed to the Chamber of Deputies from London, Paris, and Berlin.</p><p>貴族護衛手上握著四封未拆的信。信是寫給羅西先生的，寫信的是一位女士，從倫敦、巴黎和柏林寄往眾議院的信被重新寫了地址。</p>
<p>"An official from the post-office gave me these letters, and asked me if
I could deliver them," said the young soldier.</p><p>"一位郵局的官員給了我這些信，並問我是否能送達，"年輕的士兵說。</p>
<p>"My son, my son, didn't you see that it was a trap?" said the Pope. "But
no matter! Give them to me. We must leave all to the Holy Spirit."</p><p>"我的兒子，我的兒子，難道你沒看見這是一個陷阱嗎？"教皇說。"但無論如何！把它們給我。我們必須全部交給聖靈處理。"</p>
<h3 id="pgepubid00541">IV</h3>
<p>"The dress of a simple priest to-day, Gaetanino," said the Pope, when
his valet came to his bedroom on the following morning.</p><p>"當他的僕人Gaetanino在第二天早晨來到他的臥室時，教皇說：“今天請穿上普通神父的服裝。”"</p>
<p>After Mass and the usual visit of the Cardinal Secretary, the Pope
called for the young Count de Raymond.</p><p>"在彌撒和樞機秘書的常規訪問之後，教皇召見了年輕的雷蒙德伯爵。"</p>
<p>"We'll go down to our guest first," he said, putting into the
side-pocket of his cassock the letters which the Noble Guard had given
him.</p><p>"我們先去見我們的客人，"他說，並將貴族衛隊給他的信件放入長袍的側口袋。</p>
<p>They found Rossi sitting in a large, sparsely furnished room, by an
almost untouched breakfast. He lifted his head when he heard steps, and
rose as the Pope entered. His pale face was a picture of despair.
"Something has died in him," thought the Pope, and an aching sadness,
which had been gnawing at his heart for days, returned.</p><p>他們發現羅西坐在一間寬敞但擺設簡單的房間裡，旁邊是幾乎未動過的早餐。聽到腳步聲，他抬起頭，並在教皇進入時站起來。他的臉色蒼白，絕望地像一張畫。教皇心想，"他裡面的某樣東西已經死了。"這樣的悲傷感已經在他的心裡啃噬了多日，此刻再度湧現。</p>
<p>"They make you comfortable in this old place, my son?"</p><p>"他們在這個老地方讓你覺得舒適，我的兒子嗎？"</p>
<p>"Yes, your Holiness."</p><p>"是的，您的聖潔。"</p>
<p>"And you have everything you wish for?"</p><p>"你有你所希望的一切嗎？"</p>
<p>"More than I deserve, your Holiness."</p><p>"我受到的比我應得的還要多，聖父。"</p>
<p>"You have suffered, my son. But, in the providence of God, who knows
what may happen yet? Don't lose heart. Take an old man's word for
it—life is worth living. The Holy Father has found it so in spite of
many sorrows."</p><p>"你已經受夠苦難，我的孩子。但是，在上帝的眷顧下，誰又知道未來會發生什麼呢？不要失去信心。接受老人的告誡——生活是值得的。儘管有許多悲傷，神聖的父親依然這麼認為。"</p>
<p>A kind of pitying smile passed over the young man's<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00542" title="424"><a id="Page_424" title="424"></a></span> miserable face.
"Mine is a sorrow your Holiness can know nothing about—I have lost my
wife," he said.</p><p>一種帶著憐憫的微笑掠過年輕男子痛苦的臉龐。
"我的悲痛是您的聖下無法理解的——我失去了我的妻子，"他說。</p>
<p>There was a moment of silence. Then the Pope said in a voice that shook
slightly, "You don't mean that your wife <i>is</i> dead, but only...."</p><p>有一段沉默的時刻。然後教宗以微微震動的聲音說：“你不是說你的妻子已經去世，而只是...."</p>
<p>"Only," said Rossi, with a curl of the lip, "that it was she who
betrayed me."</p><p>"只是，"羅西皺著嘴唇說，"是她背叛了我。"</p>
<p>"It's hard, my son, very hard. But who knows what influences...."</p><p>"這很困難，我的兒子，非常困難。但誰知道會有什麼影響...."</p>
<p>"Curse them! Curse the influences, whatever they were, which caused a
wife to betray her husband."</p><p>"詛咒他們！無論是什麼影響，導致一個妻子背叛她的丈夫，詛咒它們！"</p>
<p>The Pope, who was sitting with both hands on the knob of his stick,
quivered perceptibly. "My son," he said, "you have much to justify you,
and it is not for me to gainsay you altogether. But God rules His world
in righteousness, and if this had not happened, who knows but what worse
might have befallen you?"</p><p>教皇，他的雙手握著柺杖的把手，明顯地發抖。他說：“我的兒子，你有許多事情需要你去證明，並且我也不是完全反對你。但是上帝以公義來統治他的世界，如果這事沒有發生，誰知道你可能會遭遇更糟糕的事情呢？”</p>
<p>"Nothing worse <i>could</i> have befallen me, your Holiness."</p><p>"沒有什麼比現在發生的事更糟糕了，聖董。"</p>
<p>There was another moment of silence, and then the Pope said, "Yes, I
understand what it is to build one's faith on a human foundation. The
foundation fails, and then the heart sinks, the soul totters. But bad as
this ... this betrayal is, you do very wrong if you refuse to see that
it saved you from the consequences—the awful consequences before God
and man—of your intended conduct."</p><p>經過另一段沉默的時刻，教皇說道："是的，我瞭解依賴人事物來建立信仰的感覺。當基礎塌陷，人的心也會下沉，靈魂會搖搖欲墜。儘管這種背叛很糟糕......你如果拒絕去看到它讓你免於後果的事實——在上帝和人面前的可怕後果——那你是大錯特錯的。"</p>
<p>"What conduct, your Holiness?"</p><p>"什麼行為，您的聖善?"</p>
<p>"The terrible conduct which formed the basis of your plans on returning
to Rome."</p><p>"形成您返回羅馬計劃基礎的可怕行為。"</p>
<p>"You mean ... what the newspapers talked about?"</p><p>"你是說...報紙上報導的事情嗎？"</p>
<p>The Pope bent his head.</p><p>教皇低下了他的頭。</p>
<p>"A conspiracy to kill the King?"</p><p>"策劃殺害國王的陰謀？"</p>
<p>Again the Pope bent his head.</p><p>`教皇再次低下了他的頭。`</p>
<p>"You believed that, your Holiness?"</p><p>"你相信這一點嗎，尊貴的教宗？"</p>
<p>"Unhappily I was compelled to do so."</p><p>"不幸的是，我被迫這樣做。"</p>
<p>"And she ... do you suppose she believed it?"</p><p>"她...你認為她相信了嗎？"</p>
<p>"She believed you were engaged in conspiracies. There was nothing else
she could believe in the light of what you had said and written."</p><p>"她相信你參與了陰謀。根據你所說和寫的內容，她沒有其他可以相信的東西。"</p>
<p>After a moment Rossi began to laugh. "And yet you say the world is ruled
in righteousness!" he said.</p><p>經過片刻，羅西開始大笑起來。他說:“然而，你卻說這個世界是在正義中被統治的！”</p>
<p>The Pope's face was whitening. "Do you tell me it was a mistake?" he
asked.</p><p>"教宗的臉色正在變白。"你是在告訴我那是一個錯誤？"他問。"
</p>
<p>"Indeed I do. The only conspiracies I was engaged in<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00543" title="425"><a id="Page_425" title="425"></a></span> were conspiracies
to found associations of freedom which had been forbidden by the
tyrannical new decree. But what matter? If an error like that can lead
to results like these, what's the good of trying?" And he laughed again.</p><p>"的確，我參與過陰謀。我唯一參與的陰謀就是試圖建立那些被專制的新法令所禁止的自由協會。但這有什麼關係呢？如果這樣的錯誤可以導致這樣的結果，那還有什麼值得努力的呢？"他又笑了起來。</p>
<p>The Pope, who was deeply moved, looked up into the young man's tortured
face, without knowing that his own tears were streaming. Old memories
were astir within him, and he was carried back into the past of his own
life. He was remembering the days when he too had reeled beneath the
blow of a terrible fate, and all his hopes and beliefs had been mown
down as by a scythe. But God had been good. His gracious hand had healed
the wound and made all things well.</p><p>教皇深受感動，他抬頭看著那個年輕人受折磨的臉，卻不知道自己的淚水已經滑落。教皇內心的舊記憶被喚起，他的思緒被帶回到自己生命的過去。他回想起當年他也曾在可怕的命運之下搖搖欲墜，所有的希望和信仰都被如同鐮刀般地割倒。但是，上帝一直都很仁慈，他的慈愛之手治癒了傷口，使一切都變得美好。</p>
<p>Taking the letters from the pocket of his cassock, the Pope laid them on
the table.</p><p>教皇從他的袍袍口袋裡拿出信，並將它們放在桌子上。</p>
<p>"These are for you, my son," he said, and then he turned away.</p><p>"這些都是給你的，我的兒子,"他說，然後他轉過身去。</p>
<p>Going down the narrow roofed-in passage to the Castle of St. Angelo,
with shafts of morning sunshine slanting through its lancet windows, and
the voices of children at play coming up from the street below, the Pope
told himself that he must be severe with Roma. The only thing
irremediable in all that had happened was the assassination, and though
that, in God's hands, had teen turned to the good of the people, yet it
raised a barrier between two unhappy souls that might never in this life
be passed.</p><p>走下通往聖安傑洛城堡的狹窄有蓬頂的通道，晨光斜照進尖拱窗，從下方的街道傳來兒童的嬉戲聲，教皇告訴自己，他必須對羅馬嚴格一些。在所有已經發生的事情中，唯一無法挽回的就是暗殺，雖然這在上帝的手中，已經被轉化為人民的福祉，但它在這輩子可能永不會被跨越的兩個不幸的靈魂之間升起了一道障礙。</p>
<p>"Poor child! Poor flower broken by the storms of fate! But I must
reprove her. Before I give her the Blessed Sacrament she must confess
and show a full contrition."</p><p>"可憐的孩子！被命運風暴摧毀的窮花！但我必須責備她。在我給她聖餐之前，她必須懺悔並表現出完全的痛悔。"</p>
<h3 id="pgepubid00544">V</h3>
<p>Roma was lying on a bed-chair in the frescoed room which had once been
the Pope's salon. She was wearing a white dress, and it made her
unruffled brow look like alabaster. Her large eyes, which were closed,
had blue rings on the lids, and her mouth, once so rosy and so gay with
laughter and light words, was colourless as marble.</p><p>羅馬躺在壁畫裝飾的房間的躺椅上，這個房間曾經是教皇的沙龍。她穿著白色連衣裙，使她那安詳的額頭看起來像是雪白的雪花石膏。她的大眼睛閉著，眼瞼上有藍色的眼影，她的嘴，曾經如此飽滿且常含笑納談、灑脫的，此刻卻顏色如大理石般蒼白。</p>
<p>A lay Sister, in a black and white habit, moved softly about the room.
It was Bruno's widow, Elena. She was the Sister Angelica who had entered
the convent of the Sacred Heart. It was there she had buried her own
trouble until, hearing of Roma's, she had begged to be allowed to nurse
her.<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00545" title="426"><a id="Page_426" title="426"></a></span></p><p>`一位身穿黑白色僧衣的修女在房間裡輕輕地移動。她就是布魯諾的寡婦，埃琳娜。她就是進入了聖心修道院的天使姐姐。在那裡，她將自己的痛苦埋藏起來，直到聽到羅馬的痛苦，她才乞求能被允許照顧她。`</p>
<p>A door opened and an officer, in a mixed light and dark blue uniform,
entered. It was the doctor of the regiment.</p><p>`一扇門打開，一位穿著混合淺藍和深藍制服的軍官走了進來。這是該團的醫生。`</p>
<p>"Sleeping, Sister?"</p><p>"睡覺了，修女嗎？"</p>
<p>"Yes, sir."</p><p>"是的，先生。"</p>
<p>"Poor soul! Let her sleep as long as she can."</p><p>"可憐的靈魂！讓她盡可能地睡眠吧。"</p>
<p>But at that moment Roma opened her eyes, and held out her white hand.
"Is it you, doctor?" she said with a smile.</p><p>"但那一刻，羅馬睜開了眼睛，伸出她的白手。
"是你，醫生嗎？”她笑著說。</p>
<p>"And how is my patient this morning? Better, I think."</p><p>"今天早上我的病人感覺如何？我想應該好些了。"</p>
<p>"Much better. In fact, I feel no pain at all to-day."</p><p>"感覺好多了。事實上，我今天完全不覺得痛。"</p>
<p>"She never does. She never feels anything if you believe her," said
Elena.</p><p>"她從來不這麼做。如果你相信她，她永遠不會感到任何事情，"Elena說。</p>
<p>"Tired, Sister?"</p><p>"你累了，修女嗎？"</p>
<p>"Why should I be tired, I wonder?"</p><p>"我為什麼會感到累呢？"</p>
<p>"Sitting up all night with me. Your big burden is very troublesome,
doctor."</p><p>"與我一起熬夜。你的大負擔非常麻煩，醫生。"</p>
<p>"Tut! You mustn't talk like that."</p><p>"呸！你不應該這樣說話。"</p>
<p>"If all jailors were as good to their prisoners as mine are to me!"</p><p>"如果所有的獄卒對他們的囚犯都像我的一樣好！"</p>
<p>"And if all prisoners were as good to their jailors.... But I forbid
that subject. I absolutely forbid it.... Ah, here comes your breakfast."</p><p>"如果所有的囚犯都對他們的獄卒這麼好....但我禁止談論這個主題。我絕對禁止它....啊，你的早餐來了。"</p>
<p>A soldier in uniform trousers and a linen jacket and cap had come in
with a tray on which there was a smoking basin.</p><p>一位穿著制服褲、亞麻夾克和帽子的士兵走進來，手中托著一個托盤，上面放著一個冒煙的盆子。</p>
<p>"You are from Sicily, aren't you, cook?"</p><p>"你是來自西西里的廚師，對吧？"</p>
<p>"Yes, from Sicily, Signora."</p><p>"是的，來自西西里，夫人。"</p>
<p>Roma leaned back to Elena and said in an undertone, "That's where <i>he</i>
has gone to, isn't it?"</p><p>"羅馬向埃琳娜靠了過來，低聲說道，"他就是去了那裡，對不對？"</p>
<p>"Some people say so, but nobody knows where he is."</p><p>"有些人這麼說，但沒有人知道他在哪裡。"</p>
<p>"No news yet?"</p><p>"還沒有消息嗎？"</p>
<p>"None whatever."</p><p>"完全沒有。"</p>
<p>"Sicily must be a lovely place, cook?"</p><p>"西西里一定是個美麗的地方，廚師，對嗎?"</p>
<p>"It is, Signora. It's the loveliest place in the world."</p><p>"這就是，夫人。 這是世界上最美麗的地方。"</p>
<p>"Last night I had such a beautiful dream, doctor. Somebody who had been
away came back, and all the church bells rang for him. I thought it was
noon, I remember, for the big gun of the Castle had just been fired. But
when I awoke it was quite dark, yet there was really something going on,
for I could hear people singing in the city and bands of music playing."</p><p>"昨暈我有一個非常美麗的夢，醫生。有一個人離開後又回來了，而所有的教堂的鐘為他敲響。我記得我以為是中午，因為城堡的大炮剛剛射出。但是當我醒來的時候，天已經很暗了，但是真的有事情正在進行，因為我可以聽到城市裡有人唱歌和音樂樂隊演奏。"</p>
<p>"Ah, that ... I'm afraid that was only ... only the sequel to the Prime
Minister's funeral. Rome is not sorry that Baron Bonelli is dead, and
last night a procession of men<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00546" title="427"><a id="Page_427" title="427"></a></span> and women marched along the streets with
songs and hymns, as on a night of carnival.... But I must be going.
Sister, see she takes her medicine as usual, and lies quiet and does not
excite herself. Good-morning!"</p><p>"啊，那個...我恐怕那只是...只是首相葬禮的續集。羅馬並不為波內利男爵的死而感到遺憾，昨晝一群男男女女沿著街道行進，唱著歌，吟著詩，就像在嘉年華之夜一樣。... 但我必須要走了。修女，請確保她如常服藥，並保持安靜，不要過於興奮。早安!"</p>
<p>When the cook also had gone Roma raised herself on her elbow. "Did you
hear what the doctor said, Elena? The death of the Baron has altered
everything. It was really no crime to kill that man, and by rights
nobody should suffer for it."</p><p>當廚師也離開之後，羅馬人用手肘支撐起自己的身體。"你有聽到醫生說的話嗎，艾琳娜？男爵的死改變了一切。殺死那個男人其實不算罪行，理應沒有人因此受罰。"</p>
<p>"Donna Roma!"</p><p>"羅馬女士!"</p>
<p>"Ah! no, I didn't mean that. Yet why shouldn't I? And why shouldn't you?
Didn't he kill Bruno and our poor dear little Joseph?..."</p><p>"啊！不，我不是那個意思。然而，我為什麼不能那樣說呢？你又為什麼不能呢？
他難道不是殺了布魯諾和我們可憐的小約瑟夫嗎？..."</p>
<p>Elena was crying. "I'm not thinking of myself," she said.</p><p>"伊琳娜正在哭泣。她說：“我沒有想到自己。”"</p>
<p>"I'm not thinking of myself, either," said Roma, "and I'm not going to
give in at the eleventh hour. But David Rossi will come back. I am sure
he will, and then..."</p><p>"我也不在乎自己，"羅馬說，"而且我不會在最後一刻放棄。但是大衛·羅西會回來的。我確信他會，然後......"</p>
<p>"And then... <i>you</i>, Donna Roma?"</p><p>"然後...你，羅馬女士?"</p>
<p>"I?"</p><p>"我？"</p>
<p>Roma fell back on her bed-chair. "No, <i>I</i> shall not be here, that's
true. It's a pity, but after all it makes no difference. And if David
Rossi has to come back... over... over my dead body, as you might say...
who is to know... or care... except perhaps... some day... when he..."</p><p>"羅馬倒在她的躺椅上。"不，我不會在這裡的，這是真的。這是遺憾，但畢竟這並沒有什麼區別。如果大衛羅西跨越...越過我的屍體，你可以說...誰知道...或者關心...除了也許...有一天...當他..."</p>
<p>Roma struggled on, but Elena broke down utterly.</p><p>"羅馬仍在掙扎，但埃琳娜卻完全崩潰了。"</p>
<p>The door opened again, and a sentry on guard outside announced the
English Ambassador.</p><p>門再次開啟，守在外面的哨兵宣佈英國大使已經到來。</p>
<p>"Ah! Sir Evelyn, is it you?"</p><p>"啊！伊夫林爵士，是你嗎？"</p>
<p>The English gentleman held down his head. "Forgive me if I intrude upon
your trouble, Donna Roma."</p><p>"英國紳士低下頭來。"對不起，如果我闖入您的困擾，羅馬女士。"</p>
<p>"Sit! Give his Excellency a chair, Sister.... Times have changed since I
knew you first, Sir Evelyn. I was a thoughtless, happy woman in those
days. But they are gone, and I do not regret them."</p><p>"坐下！給他的閣下找個椅子，姐姐....從我第一次認識你的那時起，時代已經變了，伊夫林先生。那時我是一個無憂無慮、快樂的女人。但那些日子已經過去了，我對此並不感到遺憾。"</p>
<p>"You are very brave, Donna Roma. Too brave. Only for that your trial
must have gone differently."</p><p>"你非常勇敢，羅馬女士。太勇敢了。就只因為這個，你的審判應該會有所不同。"</p>
<p>"It's all for the best, your Excellency. But was there anything you
wished to say to me?"</p><p>"這都是最好的，閣下。但是你有什麼想對我說的嗎？"</p>
<p>"Yes. The report of your condemnation has been received with deep
emotion in my country, and as the evidence given in court showed that
you were born in England, I feel that I am justified in intervening on
your behalf."<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00547" title="428"><a id="Page_428" title="428"></a></span></p><p>"是的。你被定罪的報告在我的國家中引起了強烈的情緒反應，而且庭院中的證據顯示你出生於英格蘭，我覺得我有理由為你介入。"</p>
<p>"But I don't want you to intervene, dear friend."</p><p>"但我不希望你插手，親愛的朋友。"</p>
<p>"Donna Roma, it is still possible to appeal to the Court of Cassation."</p><p>"羅馬女士，我們仍然可以向最高法院提出上訴。"</p>
<p>"I have no desire to appeal—there is nothing to appeal against."</p><p>"我無任何上訴的意願－－沒有任何東西值得我上訴。"</p>
<p>"There might be much if you could be brought to see that—that.... In
fact so many pleas are possible, and all of them good ones. For
instance...."</p><p>"如果你能被說服看到那個...事實上，有很多可能的請求，所有的都是好的。例如..."</p>
<p>The Englishman dropped both eyes and voice.</p><p>這個英國人低下了雙眼，也壓低了聲音。</p>
<p>"Well?"</p><p>"好嗎？"</p>
<p>"Donna Roma, you were tried and condemned on a charge of going to the
Prime Minister's cabinet with the intention of killing him, and of
killing him there. But if it could be proved that <i>he</i> came to <i>your</i>
house, and that, to shield <i>another person not now in the hands of
justice</i>, you...."</p><p>"羅馬女士，你曾在一項指控中受審並被定罪，該指控認為你曾帶著謀殺他的意圖去見首相，並在那裡殺害了他。但如果能證明他來過你的家，並且你為了保護另一個現在不在司法手段掌握之中的人，你......"</p>
<p>"What are you saying, your Excellency?"</p><p>"你在說什麼，閣下？"</p>
<p>"Look!"</p><p>"看！"</p>
<p>The Englishman had drawn from his breast-pocket a crumpled sheet of
white paper.</p><p>那位英國人從他的胸口口袋裡拿出一張皺巴巴的白紙。</p>
<p>"Last night I visited your deserted apartment in the Piazza Navona, and
there, amid other signs that were clear and convincing—the marks of two
pistol-shots—I found—this."</p><p>"昨晚我去了你位於那佛納廣場的空蕩蕩的公寓，在那裡，除了其他明顯且令人信服的跡象—兩處槍擊的痕跡—我還找到了—這個。"</p>
<p>"What is it? Give it to me," cried Roma. She almost snatched it out of
his hand. It was the warrant which Rossi had rolled up and flung away.</p><p>"什麼東西？給我看看，" 羅馬幾乎從他手中強行搶走。那是羅西捲起來扔掉的逮捕令。</p>
<p>"How did that warrant come there, Donna Roma? Who brought it? What other
person was with you in those rooms that night? What does he say to this
evidence of his presence on the scene of the crime?"</p><p>"那支搜查令是怎麼來的，羅馬女士？是誰帶來的？那晚在那些房間裡還有其他人嗎？他對這種證明他在犯罪現場的證據有何說法？"</p>
<p>Roma did not speak immediately. She continued to look at the Englishman
with her large mournful eyes until his own eyes fell, and there was no
sound but the crinkling of the warrant in her hand. Then she said, very
softly:</p><p>"羅馬並未立刻說話。她用她那雙大而憂鬱的眼睛繼續看著那個英國人，直到他低下了頭，唯一的聲音只有她手中逮捕令的輕輕沙沙聲。然後，她非常輕輕地說:"</p>
<p>"Excellency, you must please let me keep this paper. As you see, it is
nothing in itself, and without my testimony you can make nothing of it.
I shall never appeal against my sentence, and therefore it can be no
good to me or to anybody. But it may prove to be a danger to somebody
else—somebody whose name should be above reproach."</p><p>"閣下，您必須讓我保留這份文件。如您所見，這只是一份毫無價值的文件，如果沒有我的證詞，您將無法從中得到任何訊息。我永不會對我的判決提出上訴，因此，它對我或任何人都毫無益處。但它可能對其他人造成危險——某些應該無懈可擊的人的名字可能會被牽連。"</p>
<p>She stretched out a sweet white hand and touched his own.</p><p>她伸出一隻甜美的白手，觸摸了他的手。</p>
<p>"Haven't I done enough wrong to him already, and isn't this paper a
proof of it? Must I go farther still, and bring<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00548" title="429"><a id="Page_429" title="429"></a></span> him to the galleys? You
cannot wish it. Don't you see that the police would have to deny
everything? And I—if you forced me to speak, I should deny everything
also."</p><p>"我對他已經做了足夠多的錯事，這份文件難道不是證據嗎？我還需要再繼續下去，把他送到監獄裡去嗎？你不會希望這樣。難道你看不到警方必須否認一切嗎？而我——如果你迫我說話，我也會否認一切。"</p>
<p>A gentle, brave dauntlessness rang in her voice, and the Englishman
could with difficulty keep back his tears.</p><p>"她的聲音中充滿了溫柔而勇敢的無畏，英國人難以抑制住自己的淚水。"</p>
<p>"Excellency, Sir Evelyn, friend ... tell me I may keep the paper."</p><p>"閣下，Sir Evelyn，朋友……請告訴我我可以保留這份文件。"</p>
<p>The Englishman rose and turned his head away. "It is yours, Donna
Roma—you must do as you please with it."</p><p>"英國人站起來，轉過頭去。"這是你的東西，羅馬女士-你必須按照自己的意願處理它。"</p>
<p>She kissed the paper and put it in her breast.</p><p>她吻了那張紙，然後把它放在她的胸口。</p>
<p>"Good-bye, dear friend."</p><p>"再見，親愛的朋友。"</p>
<p>He tried to answer, "Good-bye! God bless you!" But the words would not
come.</p><p>他試圖回答，“再見！神保佑你！”，但話語無法說出來。</p>
<p>"The Major!" said the voice of the sentry. The Commandant of the Castle
came into the room.</p><p>"警衛的聲音說，'少校！' 城堡的指揮官走進了房間。"</p>
<p>"Ah! Major!" cried Roma.</p><p>"啊！少校！" 羅馬叫道。</p>
<p>"The doctor tells me you are better this morning."</p><p>"醫生告訴我你今天早上感覺好多了。"</p>
<p>"Much better."</p><p>"好多了。"</p>
<p>"It is my duty—my unhappy duty—to bring you a painful message. The
authorities, thinking your presence in Rome a cause of excitement to the
populace, have decided to send you to Viterbo."</p><p>"這是我的職責 - 我的不快的職責 - 給你帶來一個痛苦的訊息。當局認為你在羅馬的出現會讓人民感到興奮，因此決定將你送往維特博。"</p>
<p>"When is it to be, Major?"</p><p>"將軍，何時是時候？"</p>
<p>"To-morrow about mid-day."</p><p>"明天約中午。"</p>
<p>"I shall be quite-ready. But have you sent for Father Pifferi?"</p><p>「我將會完全準備好。但你有叫 Father Pifferi 來嗎？」</p>
<p>"I came to speak about that also. Sister, return to your room for the
present."</p><p>"我也來談論那個。修女，現在回去你的房間。"</p>
<p>Elena went out.</p><p>"Elena走了出去。"</p>
<p>"Donna Roma, a great personage has asked to see you in the place of the
Father General. He will come in through that doorway. It leads by a
passage long sealed up to the apartment of the Pope in the Vatican, and
he who comes and goes by it must be unknown and unseen by any one except
yourself."</p><p>"羅馬女士，一位重要的人物請求在大公父的地方見到你。他將從那扇門走進來。它透過一條長期封閉的通道通往梵蒂岡的教皇公寓，而且透過它的人必須未知且不為任何人所見，除了你自己。"</p>
<p>"Major!"</p><p>"少校!"</p>
<p>But the Major was going hurriedly out of the room. A moment afterwards
the Pope entered in his black cassock as a priest.<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00549" title="430"><a id="Page_430" title="430"></a></span></p><p>但是少校急匆匆地走出了房間。片刻之後，以神父的黑色禮服裝扮的教皇走了進來。</p>
<h3 id="pgepubid00550">VI</h3>
<p>"Rise, my child! God knows if the Holy Father ought to give you his
blessing. Far be it from me to add bitterness to your remorse in finding
yourself in this place and guilty of this sin, but.... Are we alone?"</p><p>"起來，我的孩子！神知道是否應將神聖之父的祝福賜予你。遠離我，以免你發現自己在這個地方並對這種罪行感到懊悔時，我在你的懊悔中新增苦味，但是....我們是單獨的嗎？"</p>
<p>"Quite alone, your Holiness."</p><p>"完全獨自一人，聖潔的陛下。"</p>
<p>"Sit down. The Holy Father will sit beside you."</p><p>"請坐下。教宗會坐在你旁邊。"</p>
<p>He was trying to be severe with her, but it was very difficult. His hand
strayed down to hers, and at every hard word there was a tender
pressure.</p><p>"他試圖對她表現得嚴肅，但這很難。他的手不由自主地移到了她的手上，每一句嚴厲的話語都伴隨著柔情的壓迫。"</p>
<p>"The Baron is dead. He was a cruel, heartless tyrant, without mercy or
humanity. His death has altered everything, and the load that lay on
Italy has been lifted away. But none the less you did wrong, very, very
wrong, and by the mad act of a moment.... My child! My poor child! God
help you! God help this little lost one!"</p><p>"男爵已經去世。他是一個無情的暴君，沒有慈悲或人性。他的死改變了一切，壓在義大利的重擔已經被揭開。但是你做錯了，非常錯，就在那一刻的瘋狂行為......我的孩子！我的可憐孩子！願神幫助你！願神幫助這個迷失的小孩！"</p>
<p>He patted the hand that lay in his as if he had been quieting a crying
child.</p><p>他輕拍著他手中的手，就像是在安慰一個哭泣的孩子。</p>
<p>"My child, I cannot save you from the consequences of your sin. You must
go where I cannot follow you. But since the Holy Father induced you to
make that cruel denunciation—but let us be calm—let us be calm!"</p><p>"我的孩子，我不能為你的罪行降低後果。你必須去我無法跟隨的地方。但是，由於聖父促使你做出那樣殘忍的指控-但我們保持冷靜-讓我們保持冷靜！"</p>
<p>Roma was perfectly calm, but the Pope could barely control himself.</p><p>羅馬完全冷靜，但教皇幾乎無法控制自己。</p>
<p>"I see now that we made a mistake. The conspiracies of David Rossi were
not criminal, and his aims were not unrighteous. I have been instructed
on this subject, and now I see everything in a different light. Yes, a
great mistake, although a natural and excusable one, and if that was the
cause and origin of this terrible event, the Holy Father who led you so
far...."</p><p>"我現在看到我們犯了一個錯誤。大衛·羅西的陰謀並非犯罪，他的目標也沒有不正義。我在這個主題上已經接受了教導，現在我以不同的視角看待一切。是的，一個巨大的錯誤，雖然是自然且可以諒解的，如果那就是這次恐怖事件的原因和起源，那位引領你們走這麼遠的教皇....."</p>
<p>"Your Holiness!"</p><p>"您的神聖!"</p>
<p>"Nay, you must not expect too much. It is little I can do. But now that
governments are falling and parliaments are being dissolved, David Rossi
must come back...."</p><p>"不，你不能期待過多。我能做的不多。但現在政府正在崩潰，議會正在解散，David Rossi必須回來...."</p>
<p>Roma made a cry of joy, and the Pope raised a warning finger.</p><p>"羅馬發出了喜悅的尖叫，教皇則抬起了警告的手指。"</p>
<p>"Ah, you must never think of that, my child—you must never think of it.
It is a pity, a great pity, but, alas! it cannot be otherwise now. If
your husband is to come back,<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00551" title="431"><a id="Page_431" title="431"></a></span> his name must be kept clean and
unblemished, and you can never rejoin him whatever happens."</p><p>"啊，你絕對不能去想那個，我的孩子－－你一定不能去想它。
這真是遺憾，非常遺憾，但，唉!現在已不能變化了。如果你的丈夫要回來，他的名字必須保持潔淨無瑕，無論發生什麼，你都不能再回去與他相聚。"</p>
<p>Dizzy with a sense of the Pope's awful error, Roma turned away her face.</p><p>感到教皇的可怕錯誤讓羅馬頭暈目眩，她轉過臉去。</p>
<p>"But if you tell me that what you did was due to the compulsion that was
put upon you to denounce David Rossi, he must come forward, whatever the
consequences, to defend you and plead for you. He must say to the world
and to your judges: 'It is true that this poor lady has committed a
crime—an awful crime, such as shuts the guilty one out of the fold of
the human family—but she was provoked to it by a falsehood. The dead
man deceived her. He was her betrayer, her assassin, for he tried to
slay her soul. Therefore you will have mercy upon her as you hope for
mercy, you will forgive her as you hope for forgiveness, and in the
peace and penance of some holy convent she will wipe out the past of her
unhappy life as Mary wiped out her sins in the tears with which she
washed her Master's feet.'"</p><p>"但是，如果你告訴我你所做的是由於你被迫去揭露David Rossi，不論結果如何，他都必須站出來，為你辯護，為你求情。他必須對世界和你的裁判說：'的確，這個可憐的女士犯了一樁罪行——一樁可怕的罪行，使她被人類家庭所隔離。但她是被一個謊言所驅使。那個已死的人欺騙了她。他是她的背叛者，她的刺客，因為他試圖殺害她的靈魂。因此，你們將憐憫她，就如你們希望得到憐憫，你們將原諒她，就如你們希望得到原諒，在和平和悔罪的某個神聖的修道院裡，她將像瑪麗用淚水洗他主的腳一樣，洗淨她不幸生活的過去。'"</p>
<p>He had risen in the exaltation of his emotion, and raised one hand over
his head, but Roma, in the toils of the terrible error, had dropped to
her knees at his feet.</p><p>他在情緒的激昂中站了起來，舉起一隻手在頭上，但陷入可怕錯誤困擾的羅馬，卻跪在他的腳下。</p>
<p>"Oh, I cannot die with a lie on my lips. Holy Father, let me make my
confession."</p><p>"哦，我不能帶著謊言離世。教宗陛下，讓我來說我的告解。"</p>
<p>A vague foreshadowing of the coming revelation seemed to light on the
Pope, and he sat down again without a word. Mechanically he prepared to
receive the penitent into the Church, questioning her, instructing her,
calling on her to repeat the profession of faith, and finally baptizing
her conditionally.</p><p>一種模糊的預感，似乎照在教皇身上，他又無言地坐了下來。他機械般地準備接受懺悔的人進入教會，質問她，教導她，呼籲她重複信仰的宣告，最後有條件地為她洗禮。</p>
<p>"Baptism wipes out all your sins, my daughter," he said, "but if for
your soul's comfort you wish to make a full confession before I give you
the Blessed Sacrament...."</p><p>"洗禮可以抹去你所有的罪孽，我的女兒，"他說，"但是如果你想在我給你領受祝福的聖餐之前，為了你的靈魂的安慰，你希望做一個全面的告解...."</p>
<p>"I do. I have wished it ever since the end of my trial, and that was why
I asked for Father Pifferi."</p><p>"我確實如此。自從我的審判結束，我就一直有這個願望，這也是我為什麼要找Father Pifferi的原因。"</p>
<p>"Then take care—accuse nobody else, my daughter."</p><p>"那麼小心——別指控別人，我的女兒。"</p>
<p>Roma put her hands together, repeated the Confiteor, and then said:</p><p>"Roma 把她的手合在一起，重複讀出 Confiteor，然後說："</p>
<p>"Father, I am a great, great sinner, and when I charged myself in court
with having killed the Minister, I told falsehood to shield another."</p><p>"父親，我是一個大大的罪人，當我在法庭上自稱殺了部長，我為了保護他人而說謊。"</p>
<p>"My child!" The Pope had risen to his feet.</p><p>"我的孩子!"教宗站了起來。</p>
<p>There was a moment of painful silence, and then the<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00552" title="432"><a id="Page_432" title="432"></a></span> Pope sat down again
with rigid limbs, saying in a husky voice:</p><p>經過了一段痛苦的沉默之後，教宗用僵硬的肢體再次坐下，並用嘶啞的聲音說：</p>
<p>"Go on, my daughter."</p><p>"繼續吧，我的女兒。"</p>
<p>Roma went on with her confession. She told of the mad impulse that came
to her to kill the Baron after he had forced her to denounce her
husband. She told of her preparations for killing him, and of the
incidents of the night of the crime when she was making ready to set out
on her awful errand.</p><p>羅馬繼續她的告解。她講述了在男爵強迫她背叛丈夫之後，殺死他的瘋狂衝動。她講述了她準備殺他的過程，以及在執行這項可怕任務的夜晚發生的事件。</p>
<p>"But he came to me in my own rooms at that very moment, your Holiness,
and then...."</p><p>"但他就在那一刻來到我的房間見我，聖父，然後...."</p>
<p>"In ... your own rooms?"</p><p>"在...你的房間裡嗎？"</p>
<p>"Yes, indeed, and that was really the cause of everything."</p><p>"是的，確實如此，那真的是一切的起因。"</p>
<p>"How so?"</p><p>"怎麼這樣?"</p>
<p>"Somebody else came afterwards."</p><p>"之後有其他人來了。"</p>
<p>"Somebody else?"</p><p>"有其他人嗎？"</p>
<p>"A friend."</p><p>"一個朋友。"</p>
<p>"A ... friend?"</p><p>"一位...朋友？"</p>
<p>She hesitated for a moment, and then put her hand into her breast and
drew out the warrant.</p><p>她猶豫了一會，然後把手放進她的胸口，拿出了逮捕令。</p>
<p>"This one," she said, in a voice that was scarcely audible.</p><p>"這一個，"她幾乎聽不見地說。</p>
<p>The Pope took the paper, and it rustled as he opened it. There was no
other sound in the prison cell except the rasping noise of his rapid
breathing.</p><p>教皇拿起了紙張，當他開啟它時，紙張發出了沙沙的聲音。在牢房中，除了他快速呼吸的嘶嘶聲外，沒有其他聲音。</p>
<p>"David Leone! You don't mean to say—to imply...."</p><p>"大衛·利奧內！你難道不是想說——暗示...."</p>
<p>The Pope's eyes wandered vaguely around, but they came back to the face
at his feet, and he said:</p><p>教皇的眼神無定地四處漂遊，但他的視線又回到了他腳下的臉上，他說：</p>
<p>"No, no! You cannot mean that, my child. Tell me I have misunderstood
you and come to a wrong conclusion."</p><p>"不，不！你不可能是那個意思，我的孩子。告訴我我誤解了你，並得出了錯誤的結論。"</p>
<p>Roma did not reply. Her head sunk lower and lower, and seeing this, the
Pope rose again, and standing over her he cried:</p><p>"羅馬沒有回答。她的頭越來越低，看到這一點，教皇再次起身，站在她身邊，他哭了出來："</p>
<p>"Tell me! Tell me, I command you! You wish me to believe that it was he,
not you, who committed the crime! Out on you! out on you!"</p><p>"告訴我！告訴我，我命令你！你希望我相信那是他，而不是你，犯下了這個罪行！你真可恥！你真可恥！"</p>
<p>But having said this in a hoarse and angry voice, he passed his arm over
his eyes as if to brush away the clouds that had gathered there, and
muttered in a broken and feeble way, "O God, Thou knowest my
foolishness. I am poor and needy. Make haste unto me, O God! Hide not
Thy face from Thy servant, for I am in trouble."<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00553" title="433"><a id="Page_433" title="433"></a></span></p><p>"但他以沙啞和憤怒的聲音說完這話後，他的手掠過了他的眼睛，彷彿要掃去那裡聚集的雲霧，以破碎和虛弱的聲音喃喃道，“哦，上帝，你知道我多愚蠢。我窮困潦倒。哦，上帝，請抓緊我！不要對你的僕人隱藏你的臉，因為我正處於困境中。”</p>
<p>Roma was crying at the Pope's feet, and after a moment he became aware
of it, and stooped to lift her up.</p><p>"羅馬在教宗的腳邊哭泣，過了一會，他意識到了，並彎下腰來把她扶起來。"</p>
<p>"My child! My poor, poor child! You must bear with me. I am an old man
now. Only a weak old man. My brain is confused. Things run together in
it. But I understand. I think I understand."</p><p>"我的孩子！我的可憐，可憐的孩子！你必須與我共同忍受。我現在是一個老人。只是一個虛弱的老人。我的腦袋混亂。事情在我腦中混在一起。但我理解。我想我明白了。"</p>
<p>She rose and kissed his trembling hand. He was still holding the
warrant.</p><p>她起身親吻了他顫抖的手。他仍在握著逮捕令。</p>
<p>"Where did this paper come from?"</p><p>"這張紙從哪裡來的?"</p>
<p>"The English Ambassador brought it this morning. He had found it in our
rooms in the Piazza Navona."</p><p>"英國大使今早帶來了這本書。他在我們位於納沃納廣場的房間裡找到它。"</p>
<p>"The place where the crime was committed?"</p><p>"犯罪發生的地點？"</p>
<p>"Yes."</p><p>"是的。"</p>
<p>The Pope straightened himself up, and said in a firm voice:</p><p>教皇挺直了身子，並以堅定的聲音說道：</p>
<p>"My daughter, you must permit me to keep this warrant."</p><p>"女兒，你必須讓我保留這份令狀。"</p>
<p>"No, no!"</p><p>"不，不！"</p>
<p>"Yes, yes! If I said before that your husband should come out and defend
you, I say now that he shall come out and accuse himself."</p><p>"對，對！如果我之前說過你的丈夫應該出來為你辯護，我現在說他應該出來自我指控。"</p>
<p>"Your Holiness!"</p><p>"尊敬的教宗!"</p>
<p>"He shall go to the courts and say: 'This lady is innocent. She
sacrificed herself to save my life. I do not ask for mercy. I ask for
justice. Liberate her and arrest me.'"</p><p>"他將去法庭並說：'這位女士是無辜的。她犧牲自己以挽救我的生命。我不求憐憫。我尋求公正。釋放她並逮捕我。'"</p>
<p>Roma had knelt again, and was fingering the skirt of the Pope's cassock.</p><p>羅馬再次跪下，並觸控教皇長袍的下擺。</p>
<p>"But, Holy Father," she said, "there is something I have not told you.
He who killed the Minister did so in self-defence...."</p><p>"但是，神聖的父親，"她說，"有些事我還沒告訴你。那個殺了部長的人是出於自衛...."</p>
<p>"In self-defence!"</p><p>"為了自衛!"</p>
<p>"His act was an accident, and if it had not happened the Minister would
have killed him, whereas I...."</p><p>"他的行為是一次意外，如果這沒有發生，部長就會殺了他，至於我......"</p>
<p>"In self-defence, you say?"</p><p>"你說是自衛嗎？"</p>
<p>"I am really guilty of the crime, because I intended to commit it."</p><p>"我真的對該罪行有罪，因為我打算犯下它。"</p>
<p>"But if it was done in self-defence it was no crime, and you must not
and shall not suffer."</p><p>"但如果這是出於自衛，那就不是罪行，你不應該也不會受苦。"</p>
<p>Roma dropped the Pope's cassock and took hold of his hand.</p><p>"羅馬放下了教皇的長袍，並握住了他的手。"</p>
<p>"Holy Father," she said, "how can I wish to live when he who loved me
loves me no longer? I know quite well it is better that I should go, and
that when he comes it<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00554" title="434"><a id="Page_434" title="434"></a></span> should be all over. I dreamt of it last night,
your Holiness. I thought my husband had come back and all the church
bells were ringing. Only a dream, and perhaps you do not believe in such
foolishness. But it was very sweet to think that if I could not live for
my love I could die for him, and so wipe out everything."</p><p>"神聖的父親,"她說, "當愛我的人不再愛我時，我怎麼可能希望建立自己的生活呢？我很清楚我應該走人，並且在他回來時應該已經結束一切。昨晚我夢到了這一點，你的神聖。我以為我的丈夫回來了，所有的教堂鐘聲都在鳴響。只是夢想，也許你不相信這種愚蠢的東西。但是，想到如果我不能為愛生活，我可以為他死去，從而消除一切，這想法非常甜美。"</p>
<p>The Pope's white head was bent very low.</p><p>教皇的白色頭部非常低垂。</p>
<p>"And then I cannot suffer very much, your Holiness. I am ill, really
ill, and my trouble will not last very long. And if God is using what
has happened to bring out all things well, perhaps He intends that I
shall give myself in the place of some one who is better and more
necessary."</p><p>"然後，我不能忍受太多，您的聖人。我病得很重，真的很重，我的病情不會持續很長時間。如果上帝利用所發生的事帶出所有的好事，也許他打算讓我代替某個更好，更必要的人。"</p>
<p>The Pope could bear no more. His lip quivered and his voice shook, but
his eyes were shining.</p><p>教皇無法再忍受。他的嘴唇在顫抖，聲音在哭泣，但他的眼睛在閃耀。</p>
<p>"It is not for me to gainsay you, my daughter. I came here to see Mary
Magdalene, and find the soul of the saints themselves. The world's
judgment on a woman who has sinned is merciless and cruel, but if David
Rossi is worthy of his mother and his name, he will come back to you on
his knees."</p><p>"我無權反對你，我的女兒。我來這裡是為了見聖女瑪麗‧瑪達蓮，並尋找眾聖者的靈魂。世界對於一個有罪的女人的評判是無情和殘忍的，但如果大衛‧羅西配得上他的母親和他的名字，他將會跪地回到你身邊。"</p>
<p>"Bless me, your Holiness."</p><p>"請祝福我，聖父。"</p>
<p>"I bless you, my daughter. May He in whose hands are the issues of life
and death cover your transgressions with the vast wings of His gracious
pardon and bring you joy and peace."</p><p>"我祝福你，我的女兒。願那位手握生死大權的主覆蓋你的過犯，以他寬大的寬恕之翼，並帶給你快樂與平安。"</p>
<p>The Pope went out with a brightening face, and Roma staggered back to
her couch.</p><p>教皇臉色明亮地走出去，而羅馬則搖搖晃晃地回到了她的沙發上。</p>
<h3 id="pgepubid00555">VII</h3>
<p>David Rossi sat all day in his room in the Vatican reading the letters
the Pope had left with him. They were the letters which Roma had
addressed to him in London, Paris, and Berlin.</p><p>`大衛·羅西整天坐在梵蒂岡的房間裡閱讀教皇留給他的信件。這些信件是羅馬在倫敦、巴黎和柏林寫給他的。`</p>
<p>He read them again and again, and save for the tick of the clock there
was no sound in the large gaunt room but his stifled moans. The most
violently opposed feelings possessed him, and he hardly knew whether he
was glad or sorry that thus late, and after a cruel fate had fallen,
these messages of peace had reached him.</p><p>他一遍又一遍地閱讀著，除了時鐘的滴答聲，在這間寬大而陰森的房間裡，只有他壓抑的呻吟聲。他被最加劇烈的對立感情所困擾，他甚至不知道他是開心還是遺憾。就在這種時候，這些帶來平靜的訊息終於到達他的手中，而此刻他的命運早已痛苦且殘酷地定下。</p>
<p>A spirit seemed to emanate from the thin transparent sheets of paper,
and it penetrated his whole being. As he<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00556" title="435"><a id="Page_435" title="435"></a></span> read the words, now gay, now
sad, now glowing with joy, now wailing with sorrow, a world of fond and
tender emotions swelled up and blotted out all darker passions.</p><p>"一種精神似乎從薄而透明的紙張中散發出來，並滲透了他的整個存在。當他閱讀這些詞語時，快樂時，悲傷時，充滿喜悅時，再或悲痛時，一個充滿愛與溫柔的情感世界湧現，並淹沒了所有更黑暗的激情。"</p>
<p>He could see Roma herself, and his heart throbbed as of old under the
influence of her sweet indescribable presence. Those dear features,
those marvellous eyes, that voice, that smile—they swam up and tortured
him with love and with remorse.</p><p>他可以看到羅馬本人，且他的心因為她那甜美無法形容的存在而像以前一樣的跳動。那些親愛的面貌，那驚人的眼睛，那聲音，那微笑-他們浮現在眼前，用愛和罪惡折磨他。</p>
<p>How bravely she had withstood his enemies! To think of that young,
ardent, brilliant, happy life sacrificed to his sufferings! And then her
poor, pathetic secret—how sweet and honest she had been about it! Only
a pure and courageous woman could have done as she did; while he, in his
blundering passion and mad wrath, had behaved like a foul-minded tyrant
and a coward. What loud protestations of heroic love he had made when he
imagined the matter affected another man! And when he had learned that
it concerned himself, how his vaunted constancy had failed him, and he
had cursed the poor soul whose confidence he had invited!</p><p>`多麼勇敢地她抵受了他的敵人！想想那年輕的、熱情的、閃耀的、快樂的人生，卻為他的苦難被犧牲了！又有她可憐、悲哀的秘密，她對此是多麼單純真誠！只有純潔而勇敢的女人才能做到她所做的；而他，因為他的狂熱的熱情和狂怒，行為卻如同一個品性低劣的暴君和懦夫。當他想像這事情會影響到另一個男人時，他曾大聲地表達過英勇的愛！然而當他知道這與他自己有關時，他吹噓的堅定如何讓他失望，他甚至詛咒了那個給予他信任的可憐靈魂！`</p>
<p>But above all the pangs of love and remorse, Rossi was conscious of an
overpowering despair. It took the form of revolt against God, who had
allowed such a blind and cruel sequence of events to wreck the lives of
two of His innocent children. When he took refuge in the Vatican he must
have been clinging to some waif and stray of hope. It was gone now, and
there was no use struggling. The nothingness of man against the
pitilessness of fate made all the world a blank.</p><p>但尤其是在愛和悔恨的痛苦之上，羅西感到一種無法抗拒的絕望。它以對上帝的反抗的形式出現，上帝竟然允許這樣一個盲目和殘酷的事件序列破壞他的兩個無辜的孩子的生活。當他躲進梵蒂岡時，他一定是緊緊抱著一絲希望。現在希望已經消失，無需再掙扎。人的渺小與命運的無情使所有的世界都變成了空白。</p>
<p>Rossi had rung the bell to ask for an audience with his Holiness when
the door opened and the Pope himself entered.</p><p>"羅西敲了敲門，要求見到他的聖潔，就在這時，教宗本人走了進來。"</p>
<p>"Holy Father, I wished to speak to you."</p><p>"聖父，我希望和你交談。"</p>
<p>"What about, my son?"</p><p>"關於什麼，我的兒子？"</p>
<p>"Myself. Now I see that I did wrong to ask for your protection. You
thought I was innocent, and there was something I did not tell you. When
I said I was guilty before God and man, you did not understand what I
meant. Holy Father, I meant that I had committed murder."</p><p>"我自己。現在我明白我求你保護是錯誤的。你以為我無辜，但有些事我並沒有告訴你。當我說我在上帝和人面前都有罪時，你並沒有理解我說的是什麼。敬愛的教皇，我意指的是我犯下了謀殺罪。"</p>
<p>The Pope did not answer, and Rossi went on, his voice ringing with the
baleful sentiments which possessed him.</p><p>`教皇沒有回答，羅西繼續說，他的聲音充滿了悲觀的情懷。`</p>
<p>"To tell you the truth, Holy Father, I hardly thought of it myself. What
I had done was partly in self-defence, and I did not consider it a
crime. And then, he whose life<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00557" title="436"><a id="Page_436" title="436"></a></span> I had taken was an evil man, with the
devil's dues in him, and I felt no more remorse after killing him than
if I had trodden on a poisonous adder. But now I see things differently.
In coming here I exposed you to danger at the hands of the State. I ask
your pardon, and I beg you to let me go."</p><p>"誠實地告訴你，聖父，我自己幾乎沒有考慮過這件事。我所做的部分是出於自衛，我沒有把它當作犯罪。然後，我奪去的那個人的生命是個邪惡的人，帶著魔鬼的負債，殺了他後我並沒有更多的悔恨，就像我踩到一條毒蛇一樣。但現在我看事情不同了。在來這裡的過程中，我把你置於國家的危險之中。我向你道歉，並請你讓我走。"</p>
<p>"Where will you go to?"</p><p>"你將會去哪裡？"</p>
<p>"Anywhere—nowhere—I don't know yet."</p><p>"無論哪裡-無處-我還不知道。"</p>
<p>The Pope looked at the young face, cut deep with lines of despair, and
his heart yearned over it.</p><p>教宗看著那張年輕的臉龐，深深的絕望痕跡刻在上面，他的心充滿了疼惜。</p>
<p>"Sit down, my son. Let us think. Though you did not tell me of the
assassination, I soon knew all about it.... Partly in self-defence, you
say?"</p><p>"坐下，我的兒子。讓我們思考。雖然你沒有告訴我有關暗殺的事，但我很快就瞭解了所有的事情......你說這部分是出於自衛?"</p>
<p>"That is so, but I do not urge it as an excuse. And if I did, who else
knows anything about it?"</p><p>"確實如此，但我並不把它當作藉口。而且，如果我這麼做了，還有誰知道這件事呢？"</p>
<p>"Is there nobody who knows?"</p><p>"沒有人知道嗎？"</p>
<p>"One, perhaps. But it is my wife, and she could have no interest in
saving me now, even if I wished to be saved.... I have read her
letters."</p><p>"可能只有一個。但那是我的妻子，她現在即使我希望被救也不會有興趣拯救我......我已經讀過她的信了。"</p>
<p>"If I were to tell you it is not so, my son—that your wife is still
ready to sacrifice herself for your safety...."</p><p>"如果我告訴你事實並非如此，我的兒子——你的妻子仍然願意為你的安全犧牲自己...."</p>
<p>"But that is impossible, your Holiness. There are so many things you do
not know."</p><p>"但這是不可能的，您的聖下。有很多事情您不知道。"</p>
<p>"If I were to tell you that I have just seen her, and, notwithstanding
your want of faith in her, she still has faith in you...."</p><p>"如果我告訴你我剛剛見過她，儘管你對她缺乏信任，她仍然對你有信念...."</p>
<p>The deep lines of despair began to pass from Rossi's face, and he made a
cry of joy.</p><p>"從Rossi的臉上深深的絕望線條開始消逝，他發出了一聲歡喜的叫聲。"</p>
<p>"If I were to say that she loves you, and would give her life for
you...."</p><p>"如果我說她愛你，並願意為你獻出她的生命...."</p>
<p>"Is it possible? Do you tell me that? In spite of everything? And
she—where is she? Let me go to her. Holy Father, if you only knew! I'll
go and beg her pardon. I cursed her! Yes, it is true that in my blind,
mad passion I.... But let me go back to her on my knees. The rest of my
life spent at her feet will not be enough to wipe out my fault."</p><p>"真的可以嗎？你在告訴我這個嗎？儘管一切如此？她在哪裡？讓我去找她。聖父啊，如果你只知道！我會去向她道歉。我詛咒過她！是的，我在盲目的，瘋狂的激情下......但是讓我跪著回到她身邊。我餘生在她腳下的時間還不足以消除我的過錯。"</p>
<p>"Stay, my son. You shall see her presently."</p><p>"留下來，我的兒子。你將立刻見到她。"</p>
<p>"Can it be possible that I shall see her? I thought I should never see
her again; but I counted without God. Ah! God is good after all. And
you, Holy Father, you are good too. I will beg her forgiveness, and she
will forgive me. Then we'll fly away somewhere—we'll escape to Africa,
India,<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00558" title="437"><a id="Page_437" title="437"></a></span> anywhere. We'll snatch a few years of happiness, and what more
has anybody a right to expect in this miserable world?"</p><p>"難道我真的可能會見到她嗎？我以為我永遠不會再見到她；但我沒有考慮到上帝的作用。啊！上帝真是太善良了。聖父，你也是善良的。我會去向她求饒，她也會原諒我。然後我們會逃到某個地方--我們會逃到非洲、印度，或其他任何地方。我們會抓緊幾年的幸福生活，並且在這個痛苦的世界裡，有什麼比這更值得期待的呢？"</p>
<p>Exalted in the light of his imaginary future, he seemed to forget
everything else—his crime, his work, his people.</p><p>在他想像中的未來光芒中被高度神聖化的他，似乎已忘記了其他所有事物——他的罪行、他的工作、他的人民。</p>
<p>"Is she at home still?"</p><p>"她還在家嗎？"</p>
<p>"She is only a few paces from this place, my son."</p><p>"她距離這個地方只有幾步之遙，我的兒子。"</p>
<p>"Only a few paces! Oh, let me not lose a moment more. Where is she?"</p><p>"只需幾步！哦，不讓我再浪費一刻。她在哪裡？"</p>
<p>"In the Castle of St. Angelo," said the Pope.</p><p>"在聖安吉洛城堡,"教皇說。</p>
<p>A dark cloud crossed Rossi's beaming face and his mouth opened as if to
emit a startling cry.</p><p>一道黑暗的雲彩掠過羅西燦爛的臉，他的嘴巴張開，彷彿要發出一聲驚人的叫喊。</p>
<p>"In ... in prison?"</p><p>"在 ... 在監獄裡?"</p>
<p>The Pope bowed.</p><p>教宗鞠躬。</p>
<p>"What for?"</p><p>"為了什麼？"</p>
<p>"The assassination of the Minister."</p><p>"部長的暗殺"</p>
<p>"Roma?... But what a fool I was not to think of it as a thing that might
happen! I left her with the dead man. Who was to believe her when she
denied that she had killed him?"</p><p>"羅馬？... 但我怎麼這麼笨，沒有想到這可能會發生！我讓她和死者在一起。當她否認她殺了他時，誰會相信她？"</p>
<p>"She did not deny it. She avowed it."</p><p>"她並未否認。她公開承認了。"</p>
<p>"Avowed it? She said that she had...."</p><p>"她承認了？她說她有......"</p>
<p>The Pope bowed again.</p><p>教皇再次鞠躬。</p>
<p>"Then ... then it was ... was it to shield me?"</p><p>"那麼...那麼是...是要保護我嗎？"</p>
<p>"Yes."</p><p>"是的。"</p>
<p>Rossi's eyes grew moist. He was like another man.</p><p>"羅西的眼睛變得濕潤。他像是變成了另一個人。"</p>
<p>"But the court ... surely no court will believe her."</p><p>"但是法庭...肯定沒有法庭會相信她。"</p>
<p>"She has been tried and sentenced, my son."</p><p>"她已經被審判並判刑，我的兒子。"</p>
<p>"Sentenced? Do you say sentenced? For a crime she did not commit? And to
shield me? Holy Father, would you believe that the last words I spoke to
that woman ... but she is an angel. The authorities must be mad, though.
Did nobody think of me? Didn't it occur to any one that I had been there
that night?"</p><p>"被判罪？您說被判罪？為了一項她並未犯下的罪行？並且要保護我？聖父，你會相信我對那個女人說的最後一句話…但她是個天使。雖然，當局一定是瘋了。沒有人想到我嗎？難道沒有人想到我那天晚上在那裡嗎？"</p>
<p>"There was only one piece of evidence connecting you with the scene of
the crime, my son. It was this."</p><p>"只有一種證據將你與犯罪現場聯絡起來，我的兒子。 那就是這個。"</p>
<p>The Pope drew from his breast the warrant he had taken from Roma.</p><p>教皇從他的胸口取出他從羅馬拿來的逮捕令。</p>
<p>"<i>She</i> had it?"</p><p>"她有它嗎？"</p>
<p>"Yes."</p><p>"是的。"</p>
<p>Rossi's emotions whirled within him in a kind of hurricane. The despair
which had clamoured so loud looked mean and contemptible in the presence
of the mighty passion which<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00559" title="438"><a id="Page_438" title="438"></a></span> had put it to shame. But after a while his
swimming eyes began to shine, and he said:</p><p>"羅西內心的情緒猶如颶風般翻騰。那響徹心間的絕望在巨大的熱情面前顯得微不足道，恥愧至極。但過了一會兒，他迷茫的雙眼開始閃耀，他開始說：“</p>
<p>"Holy Father, this paper belongs to me and you must permit me to keep
it."</p><p>"聖父，這份檔案是我的，您必須允許我保留它。"</p>
<p>"What do you intend to do, my son?"</p><p>"你打算做什麼，我兒?"</p>
<p>"There is only one thing to do now."</p><p>"現在只有一件事可以做。"</p>
<p>"What is that?"</p><p>"那是什麼？"</p>
<p>"<i>To save her.</i>"</p><p>"為了救她。"</p>
<p>There was no need to ask how. The Pope understood, and his breast
throbbed and swelled. But now that he had accomplished what he came for,
now that he had awakened the sleeping soul and given it hope and faith
and courage to face justice, and even death if need be, the Pope became
suddenly conscious of a feeling in his own heart which he struggled in
vain to suppress.</p><p>無需問明原因。教皇明白了，他的心怦怦跳動，悸動不已。但現在他已經完成了他的使命，現在他已經喚醒了沉睡的靈魂，並給予了它希望和信念，以及面對公正，甚至如果需要的話，面對死亡的勇氣，教皇突然覺察到他自己心中的某種感覺，但他卻無法壓制住。</p>
<p>"Far be it from me to excuse a crime, my son, but the merciful God who
employs our poor passions to His own great purposes has used your acts
to great ends. The world is trembling on the verge of unknown events and
nobody knows what a day may bring forth. Let us wait a while."</p><p>"決非我意許其罪行，我兒，但是慈悲的上帝利用我們可悲的激情以達其偉大目的，他已大大地利用了你的行為。 世界正在未知事件的邊緣震顫，沒有人知道一天可能會帶來什麼。 讓我們稍等片刻。"</p>
<p>Rossi shook his head.</p><p>"羅西搖了搖頭。"</p>
<p>"It is true that a crime will be the same to-morrow as to-day, but the
dead man was a tyrant, a ferocious tyrant, and if he forced you in
self-defence..."</p><p>"確實，犯罪明天將與今天一樣，但那位死去的男子是一位暴君，一位兇殘的暴君，如果他迫使你自衛..."</p>
<p>Again Rossi shook his head, but still the Pope struggled on.</p><p>"羅西再次搖頭，但教宗仍然堅持不懈。"</p>
<p>"You have your own life to think about, my son, and who knows but in
God's good service..."</p><p>"你有自己的生活需要思考，我的孩子，誰知道在神的善良服務中..."</p>
<p>"Let me go."</p><p>"讓我走。"</p>
<p>"You intend to give yourself up?"</p><p>"你打算自首嗎？"</p>
<p>"Yes."</p><p>"是的。"</p>
<p>The Pope could say no more. He rose to his feet. His saintly face was
full of a dumb yearning love and pride, which his tongue might never
tell. He thought of his years of dark searching, ending at length in
this meeting and farewell, and an impulse came to him to clasp the young
man to his swelling and throbbing breast. But after a moment, with
something of his old courageous calm of voice, he said:</p><p>教宗再也說不出話來。他站了起來。他聖潔的面孔充滿了無法言說的渴望之愛和驕傲。他想到自己多年的黑暗尋索，最終在此次的會面和告別中結束，他有個衝動想要把這個年輕男子緊緊擁抱在自己充滿熱情出呼吸又有強烈脈搏跳動的胸膛裡。但過了一會兒，他用他老遠的勇敢且冷靜的語氣說：</p>
<p>"I am not surprised at your decision, my son. It is worthy of your blood
and name. And now that we are parting for the last time, I could wish to
tell you something."</p><p>"我對你的決定並不感到驚訝，我的兒子。這個決定恰恰符合你的血脈和名字的價值。現在我們即將永別，我希望能告訴你一些事情。"</p>
<p>David Rossi did not speak.</p><p>"大衛·羅西沒有說話。"</p>
<p>"I knew your mother, my son."<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00560" title="439"><a id="Page_439" title="439"></a></span></p><p>"我認識你的母親，我的兒子。"</p>
<p>"My mother?"</p><p>"我的母親？"</p>
<p>The Pope bowed and smiled.</p><p>教皇鞠躬並微笑。</p>
<p>"She was a great soul, too, and she suffered terribly. Such are the ways
of God."</p><p>"她也是一位偉大的靈魂，並且遭受了極大的痛苦。這就是上帝的道路。"</p>
<p>Still Rossi did not speak. He was looking steadfastly into the Pope's
quivering face and making an effort to control himself.</p><p>羅西仍未開口。他堅定地望著教皇的顫抖的臉，並努力控制自己。</p>
<p>The Pope's voice shook and his lip trembled.</p><p>教宗的聲音在顫抖，他的嘴唇在顫抖。</p>
<p>"Naturally, you think ill of your father, knowing how much your mother
suffered. Isn't that so?"</p><p>"當然，你對你的父親有不好的想法，因為你知道你的母親承受了多少苦難。不是嗎?"</p>
<p>Rossi put one hand to his forehead as if to steady his reeling brain,
and said, "Who am I to think ill of any one?"</p><p>羅西用一隻手扶住額頭，好像要穩定他搖晃的大腦，並說：“我是誰，怎麼能對任何人有壞想法？”</p>
<p>The Pope smiled again, a timid smile.</p><p>教宗再次微笑，這是一個羞怯的微笑。</p>
<p>"David...."</p><p>"大衛...."</p>
<p>Rossi caught his breath.</p><p>羅西喘了口氣。</p>
<p>"If, in the providence of God, you were to meet your father somewhere,
and he held out his hand to you, would you ... wherever you met and
whatever he might be ... would you <i>shake hands with him</i>?"</p><p>"如果，在神的眷顧下，你在某個地方遇到了你的父親，他向你伸出了手，無論你在哪裡遇到他，無論他可能是誰......你會和他握手嗎？"</p>
<p>"Yes," said Rossi; "if I were a King on his throne, and he were the
lowest convict at the galleys."</p><p>"是的," Rossi說; "即使我是坐在王位上的國王，他是監獄中最低等的囚犯。"</p>
<p>The Pope fetched a long breath, took a step forward, and silently held
out his hand. At the next moment the young man and the old Pope were
hand to hand and eye to eye.</p><p>教宗深深吸了一口氣，向前邁出一步，默默地伸出他的手。下一刻，年輕人和年老的教宗手與手相握，眼與眼相對。</p>
<p>They tried to speak and could not.</p><p>他們試圖說話，但無法做到。</p>
<p>"Farewell!" said the Pope in a choking voice, and turning away he
tottered out of the room.</p><p>"再見！"教宗聲音帶著哽咽說道，轉身離去，他搖搖晃晃地走出了房間。</p>
<h3 id="pgepubid00561">VIII</h3>
<p>The doctor of the Engineers, not entirely satisfied with his diagnosis
of Roma's illness, prescribed a remedy of unfailing virtue—hope. It was
a happy treatment. The past of her life seemed to have disappeared from
her consciousness and she lived entirely in the future. It was always
shining in her eyes like a beautiful sunrise.</p><p>工程師的醫生對於對羅馬的病情診斷並不完全滿意，他給她開出了一劑無法失敗的良藥——希望。這是一種快樂的治療方法。她的過去生活似乎已從她的意識中消失，她完全活在未來裡。那總是閃爍在她眼中，如同美麗的日出。</p>
<p>The sunrise Roma saw was beyond the veil of this life, but the good
souls about her knew nothing of that. They brought every piece of
worldly intelligence that was likely to be good news to her. By this
time they imagined they knew where her heart lay, and such happiness was
in her white<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00562" title="440"><a id="Page_440" title="440"></a></span> face when as soldiers of the King they whispered treason
that they thought themselves rewarded.</p><p>羅馬看到的日出超越了這生活的面紗，但她周圍的善良之靈卻對此一無所知。他們將任何可能帶來好訊息的世俗智慧全都帶給她。這時候，他們想象他們已經知道她的心在何處，當作為國王的士兵他們在耳語叛國的時候，她的臉上露出如此的快樂，他們覺得自己得到了報答。</p>
<p>They told her of an attempted attack on the Vatican, with all its
results and consequences—army disorganised, the Borgo Barracks shut up,
soldiers wearing cockades and marching arm in arm, the Government
helpless and the Quirinal in despair.</p><p>他們告訴她，有人試圖攻擊梵蒂岡，並講述了所有的結果和後果—軍隊混亂，波戈兵營關閉，士兵帶著繡花章，手挽手行進，政府無助，奎里納爾宮深感絕望。</p>
<p>"I'm sorry for the young King," she said, "but still...."</p><p>"我為年輕的國王感到抱歉，"她說，"但還是...."</p>
<p>It was the higher power working with blind instruments. Rossi would come
back. His hopes, so nearly laid waste, would at length be realised. And
if, as she had told Elena, he had to return over her own dead body, so
to speak, there would be justice even in that. It would be pitiful, but
it would be glorious also. There were mysteries in life and death, and
this was one of them.</p><p>`那是更高的力量在操作無知的工具。羅西將會回來。他的希望，幾乎已經被摧毀，最終將得以實現。而如果，正如她告訴埃琳娜的，他必須越過她的死亡之軀，那麼說，那甚至是公正的。那將是可憐的，但也將是光榮的。生死中的奧秘，這就是其中之一。`</p>
<p>She was as gentle and humble as ever, but every hour she grew more
restless. This conveyed to her guards the idea that she was expecting
something. Notwithstanding her plea of guilty, they thought perhaps she
was looking for her liberty out of the prevailing turmoil.</p><p>`她依然溫柔謙卑，但每個小時她的不安就增加了一些。這種情況讓她的守護者們覺得她似乎在期待著什麼。儘管她承認了罪行，他們還是認為她可能在這股混亂的局勢中尋找自由。`</p>
<p>"I will be very good and do everything you wish, doctor. But don't
forget to ask the Prefect to let me stay in Rome over to-morrow. And,
Sister, do please remember to waken me early in the morning, because I'm
certain that something is going to happen. I've dreamt of it three
times, you know."</p><p>"我會很乖，並按照你的期望去做，醫生。但是別忘了請教宗特使讓我明天可以留在羅馬。還有，修女，請記得早上早點叫醒我，我確定明天會發生一些事情。我已經夢見這一切三次了。"</p>
<p>"A pity!" thought the doctor. "Governments may fall and even dynasties
may disappear, but judicial authorities remain the same as ever, and the
judgment of the court must be carried out."</p><p>"真可惜！"醫生想。"政府可能會垮臺，甚至王朝可能會消失，但司法權力始終如一，法院的判決必須執行。"</p>
<p>Nevertheless he would speak to the Prefect. He would say that in the
prisoner's present condition the journey to Viterbo might have serious
consequences. As he was setting out on this errand early the following
morning, he met Elena in the anteroom, and heard that Roma was paying
the most minute attention to the making of her toilet.</p><p>然而，他仍然想向警視說話。他會表示在囚犯當前的狀況下，前往維特博的旅程可能會帶來嚴重的後果。就在他第二天一早準備出門執行這一任務時，他在前廳碰到了埃琳娜，並聽說羅馬正在專心致志地打扮自己。</p>
<p>"Strange! You would think she was expecting some one," said Elena.</p><p>"奇怪！你會認為她在期待某人的到來，"艾琳娜說。</p>
<p>"She is, too," said the doctor. "And he is a visitor who will not keep
her long."</p><p>"她也是,"醫生說。"而他是一位不會讓她等待很久的訪客。"</p>
<p>The soldier who brought Roma her breakfast that morning brought
something else that she found infinitely more appetising. Rossi had
returned to Rome! One of the men below had seen him in the street last
night. He was going<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00563" title="441"><a id="Page_441" title="441"></a></span> in the direction of the <i>Piazza</i> Navona, and nobody
was attempting to arrest him.</p><p>那天早晨給羅馬送早餐的士兵帶來了她無比期待的訊息。羅西已經回到了羅馬！下面的一個人昨晚在街上見到了他。他正朝著納沃納廣場的方向走去，沒有任何人試圖逮捕他。</p>
<p>Roma's eyes flashed like stars, and she sent down a message to the
Major, asking to be allowed to see the soldier who had seen Rossi.</p><p>羅馬的眼睛像星星一樣閃爍，她給少校發了一條訊息，請求見到見過羅西的士兵。</p>
<p>He was a big ungainly fellow, but in Roma's eyes who shall say how
beautiful? She asked him a hundred questions. His dense head was utterly
bewildered.</p><p>他是一個大而笨重的家夥，但在羅馬的眼裡，誰能說他有多美？她問了他一百個問題。他那慢鈍的腦袋完全困惑了。</p>
<p>The doctor came back with a smiling face. The Prefect had agreed to
postpone indefinitely the transfer of their prisoner to the
penitentiary. The good man thought she would be very grateful.</p><p>這位醫生帶著笑臉回來了。縣長同意無期限延後將他們的囚犯轉移到監獄。這好人家認為她會很感激。</p>
<p>"Ah, indefinitely? I only wished to remain over to-day! After that I
shall be quite ready."</p><p>"啊，無限期？我只是希望今天能留下來！之後我就完全準備好了。"</p>
<p>But the doctor brought another piece of news which threw her into the
wildest excitement. Both Senate and Chamber of Deputies had been
convoked late last night for an early hour this morning. Rumour said
they were to receive an urgent message from the King. There was the
greatest commotion in the neighbourhood of the Houses of Parliament, and
the public tribunes were densely crowded. The doctor himself had
obtained a card for the Chamber, but he was unable to get beyond the
corridors. Nevertheless, the doors being open owing to the heat and
crush, he had heard something. Vaguely, for five minutes, he had heard
one of their great speakers.</p><p>"但醫生帶來了另一項消息，使她非常激動。議會和眾議院都在昨晚深夜被召集，並在今天早上早點時間開會。據說他們將收到國王的急件。周邊的議會區域內騷動不安，公眾看臺上人群密集。醫生本人獲得了進入眾議院的許可，但他無法走出走廊。然而，由於熱力和擠壓，門是開著的，他聽到了一些東西。大約五分鐘，他模糊地聽到他們的一位大講者在說話。"
</p>
<p>"Was it ... was it, perhaps...."</p><p>"是它... 或許，是它...."</p>
<p>"It was."</p><p>"這就是。"</p>
<p>Again the big eyes flashed like stars.</p><p>那雙大眼睛再次像星星一樣閃爍。</p>
<p>"You heard him speak?"</p><p>"你聽到他說話了嗎？"</p>
<p>"I heard his voice at all events."</p><p>"無論如何，我都聽到了他的聲音。"</p>
<p>"It's a wonderful voice, isn't it? And you really heard him? Can it be
possible?"</p><p>"他的聲音很美妙，不是嗎？你真的聽到他了嗎？真的可能嗎？"</p>
<p>Elena, the sad figure in the background of these bright pathetic scenes,
thought Roma was hoping for a reconciliation with Rossi. She hinted as
much, and then the fierce joy in the white face faded away.</p><p>`在這些明亮而悲慘的場景背後，傷心的人物艾琳娜，認為羅瑪希望與羅西和解。她暗示了這麼多，然後那張白臉上的猛烈喜悅就褪去了。`</p>
<p>"Ah, no! I'm not thinking of that, Elena."</p><p>"啊，不！我並沒有在想那個，Elena。"</p>
<p>Her love was too large for personal thoughts. It had risen higher than
any selfish expectations.</p><p>她的愛超越了個人的思考。它已經超越了任何自私的期望。</p>
<p>They helped her on to the loggia. The day was warm, and the fresh air
would do her good. She looked out over the city with a loving gaze,
first towards the Piazza Navona,<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00564" title="442"><a id="Page_442" title="442"></a></span> then towards the tower of Monte
Citorio, and last of all towards Trinità de' Monti and the House of the
Four Winds. But she was seeing things as they would be when she was
gone, not to Viterbo, but on a longer journey.</p><p>`他們幫助她走上露臺。天氣溫暖，新鮮的空氣對她有益。她慈愛地看著城市，首先是瞭望向納沃納廣場，然後是望向蒙特希蒂奧塔，最後是望向特里尼塔·德·蒙蒂和四風之屋。但她所看到的是她離去後的景象，不是去維特博，而是一段更長的旅程。`</p>
<p>"Elena?"</p><p>"艾琳娜？"</p>
<p>"Well?"</p><p>"好嗎？"</p>
<p>"Do you think he will ever learn the truth?"</p><p>"你認為他會知道真相嗎？"</p>
<p>"About the denunciation?"</p><p>"關於這個指控?"</p>
<p>"Yes."</p><p>"是的。"</p>
<p>"I should think he is certain to do so."</p><p>"我認為他肯定會這麼做。"</p>
<p>"Why I did it, and what tempted me, and ... and everything?"</p><p>"為什麼我做了這件事，是什麼誘惑了我，還有...還有所有事情？"</p>
<p>"Yes, indeed, everything."</p><p>"是的，的確，一切都是。"</p>
<p>"Do you think he will think kindly of me then, and forgive me and be
merciful?"</p><p>"你認為他會對我心存善念，原諒我並憐憫我嗎？"</p>
<p>"I am sure he will."</p><p>"我確定他會的。"</p>
<p>A mysterious glow came into the pallid face.</p><p>`蒼白的臉上浮現出神秘的光芒。`</p>
<p>"Even if he never learns the truth here, he will learn it hereafter,
won't he? Don't you believe in that, Elena—that the dead know all?"</p><p>"即使他在這裡永遠不知道真相，他會在來世知道，不是嗎？你相信這一點嗎，Elena——死者知道所有事嗎？"</p>
<p>"If I didn't, how could I bear to think of Bruno?"</p><p>"如果我沒有，我怎能忍受思考布魯諾呢？"</p>
<p>"True. How selfish I am! I hadn't thought of that. We are in the same
case in some things, Elena."</p><p>"對，我真是自私！我沒有想到那點。在某些事情上，我們，Elena，是同路人。"</p>
<p>The future was shining in the brilliant eyes with the radiance of an
unseen sunrise.</p><p>未來在閃爍的眼眸中閃耀，象徵未來猶如未見的日出般光明。</p>
<p>"Dear Elena?"</p><p>"親愛的Elena?"</p>
<p>"Ye-s."</p><p>"是的。"</p>
<p>"Do you think it will seem long to wait until he comes?"</p><p>"你認為等他來的時間會不會很長?"</p>
<p>"Don't talk like that, Donna Roma."</p><p>"不要那樣說話，羅馬的女士。"</p>
<p>"Why not? It's only a little sooner or later, you know. Will it?"</p><p>"為什麼不呢？這只是早晚的事情，你知道的。會這樣嗎？"</p>
<p>Elena had turned aside, and Roma answered herself.</p><p>"埃琳娜已經轉過身去，羅馬自答自題。"</p>
<p>"<i>I</i> don't. I think it will pass like a dream—like going to bed at
night and awaking in the morning. And then both together—there."</p><p>"我不這麼認為。我想它將如夢一般消逝——就像晚上上床睡覺，然後早晨醒來一樣。然後兩者一起——就在那裡。"</p>
<p>She took a long deep breath of unutterable joy.</p><p>她深深地吸了一口氣，感到無以言表的喜悅。</p>
<p>"Oh," she said, "that I may sleep until he comes—knowing all, forgiving
everything, loving me the same as before, and every cruel thought dead
and gone and forgotten."</p><p>"哦，"她說，"希望我可以睡著，直到他來—知道一切，原諒所有的事情，像以前一樣愛我，每一個殘忍的想法都消失，被遺忘。"</p>
<p>She asked for pen and paper and wrote a letter to Rossi:</p><p>她要求筆和紙，然後給羅西寫了一封信：</p>
<p style="padding-top:.5em">"<span class="smcap">Dearest</span>,—I hear the good news, just as I am on the point of leaving
Rome, that you have returned to it, and I<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" title="443"><a id="Page_443" title="443"></a></span> write to ask you not to try
to alter what has happened. Believe me, it is better so. The world wants
you, dear, and it doesn't want me any longer. Therefore return to life,
be brave and strong and great, and think of me no more until we meet
again.</p><p style="padding-top:.5em">"親愛的，我正準備離開羅馬的時候，聽說你已經回到這裡，是個好消息，我寫這封信是希望你不要試圖改變已經發生的事情。相信我，這樣才是最好的。世界需要你，親愛的，而我已不再被世界所需要。所以，回到生活中去，要勇敢，堅強，偉大，直到我們再見，不要再想我。"</p>
<p>"You will know by what I have done that what you thought was quite
unfounded. Whatever people say of me, you must always believe that I
loved you from the first, and that I have never loved anybody but you.</p><p>"你將從我所做的事情中知道，你曾經的疑惑完全是無根據的。無論人們如何評論我，你都必須始終相信我從一開始就愛你，並且我從未愛過除你之外的任何人。"</p>
<p>"You were angry with me when we parted, but more than ever I love you
now. Don't think our love has been wasted. ''Tis better to have loved
and lost than never to have loved at all.' How beautiful!</p><p>"離別時你對我憤怒，但我對你的愛現在比以往任何時候都更深。不要認為我們的愛已經浪費。寧願曾經愛過並失去，也不願從未愛過。真美!"</p>
<p style="text-align:right; margin-top:-1em; padding-bottom:.5em;"><span class="smcap">Roma</span>."</p><p style="text-align:right; margin-top:-1em; padding-bottom:.5em;">"羅馬。"</p>
<p>Having written her letter, and put her lips to the enclosure, she
addressed the envelope in a bold hand and with a brave flourish: "All'
Illustrissimo Signor Davide Rossi, Camera dei Deputati."</p><p>她寫完信後，親吻了裡面的東西，然後大膽地寫下地址，並並大筆一揮："給尊貴的大衛·羅西先生，議會之家。"</p>
<p>"You'll post this immediately I am gone, Sister," she said.</p><p>"妳會在我走後立刻貼這個，姐姐，"她說。</p>
<p>Elena pretended to put the letter away for that purpose, but she really
smuggled it down to the Major, who despatched it forthwith to the
Chamber of Deputies.</p><p>"艾琳娜假裝為了那個目的把信放回去，但她實際上偷偷地把它交給了少校，少校立即將它送到了眾議院。"</p>
<p>"And now I'll go to sleep," said Roma.</p><p>"現在我要去睡覺了," 羅馬說。</p>
<p>She slept until mid-day with the sun's reflection from the white plaster
of the groined ceiling of the loggia on her still whiter face. Then the
twelve o'clock gun shook the walls of the Castle, and she awoke while
the church bells were ringing.</p><p>她一直睡到中午，陽光從走廊上的白色石膏的穹頂反射到她更白的臉上。然後，十二點的炮聲震動了城堡的牆壁，她在教堂的鐘聲中醒來。</p>
<p>"I thought it was my dream coming true, Sister," she said.</p><p>"我以為我的夢想正在實現，修女，"她說。</p>
<p>The doctor came up at that moment in a high state of excitement.</p><p>那時醫生非常興奮地走了過來。</p>
<p>"Great news, Donna Roma. The King...."</p><p>"好消息，唐娜·羅馬。國王...."</p>
<p>"I know!"</p><p>"我知道！"</p>
<p>"Failing to form a Government to follow that of the Baron, appealed to
Parliament to nominate a successor...."</p><p>"未能形成一個接替男爵的政府，呼籲國會提名一位繼任者...."</p>
<p>"So Parliament...."</p><p>"所以議會...."</p>
<p>"Parliament has nominated the Honourable Rossi, the King has called for
him, the warrant for his arrest has been cancelled, and all persons
imprisoned for the recent insurrection have been set at liberty."</p><p>"國會已經提名了尊敬的羅西先生，國王已呼喚他，已取消他的逮捕令，並釋放了所有因最近的起義而被囚禁的人。"</p>
<p>Roma's trembling and exultant eyelids told a touching story.<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00565" title="444"><a id="Page_444" title="444"></a></span></p><p>"羅馬顫抖且喜悅的眼皮訴說了一個動人的故事。"</p>
<p>"Is there anything to see?"</p><p>"有什麼可以看的嗎？"</p>
<p>"Only the flag on the Capitol."</p><p>"只有國會大廈上的旗幟。"</p>
<p>"Let me look at it."</p><p>"讓我看看它。"</p>
<p>He helped her to rise. "Look! There it is on the clock tower."</p><p>他幫助她站起來。"看！那就在鐘樓上。"</p>
<p>"I see it.... That will do. You can put me down now, doctor."</p><p>"我看到了....可以了。你現在可以把我放下，醫生。"</p>
<p>An ineffable joy shone in her face.</p><p>"她臉上閃耀著難以言喻的喜悅。"</p>
<p>"It <i>was</i> my dream after all, Elena."</p><p>"畢竟，那是我的夢想，艾琳娜。"</p>
<p>After a moment she said, "Doctor, tell the Prefect I am quite ready to
go to Viterbo. In fact I wish to go. I should like to go immediately."</p><p>"過了一會兒，她說：“醫生，告訴總主教，我非常願意去維泰博。事實上，我想去。我希望現在就去。”"</p>
<p>"I'll tell him," said the doctor, and he went out to hide his emotion.</p><p>"我會告訴他,"醫生說,然後他出去隱藏自己的情緒。</p>
<p>The Major came to the open arch of the loggia. He stood there for a
moment, and there was somebody behind him. Then the Major disappeared,
but the other remained. It was David Rossi. He was standing like a man
transfixed, looking in speechless dismay at Roma's pallid face with the
light of heaven on it.</p><p>`少將走到走廊的開放拱門處。他在那裡站了一會兒，背後有一個人。然後少將消失了，但另一個人卻留下來。那是大衛·羅西。他像一個被釘住的人站著，無言地驚愕地看著羅馬蒼白的臉，臉上有著天堂的光輝。`</p>
<p>Roma did not see Rossi, and Elena, who did, was too frightened to speak.
Lying back in her bed-chair with a great happiness in her eyes, she
said:</p><p>`羅馬沒有看到羅西，而埃琳娜確實看到了他，但她太害怕而無法說話。躺在她的床椅上，她的眼中充滿了巨大的快樂，她說:`</p>
<p>"Sister, if he should come here when I am gone ... no, I don't mean
that ... but if you should see him and he should ask about me, you will
say that I went away quite cheerfully. Tell him I was always thinking
about him. No, don't say that either. But he must never think I
regretted what I did, or that I died broken-hearted. Say farewell for
me, Elena. <i>Addio Carissima!</i> That's his word, you know. <i>Addio
Carissimo!</i>"</p><p>"修女，如果他在我走後來到這裡……不，我不是那個意思……但是如果你看到他，他問起我，你告訴他我是開心的離開。告訴他我總是在想他。不，也不要這麼說。但他絕不能覺得我對我所做的事感到遺憾，或我是心碎地去世。代我向他道別，Elena。Addio Carissima！那是他的話，你知道的。Addio Carissimo!"</p>
<p>Rossi, blinded with his tears, took a step into the loggia, and in a low
voice, very soft and tremulous, as if trying not to startle her, he
cried:</p><p>"羅西，淚眼朦朧，走進了走廊，在他的聲音中透出一種非常柔和且顫抖的氣息，就像他在試圖不讓她驚嚇，他喊道："</p>
<p>"Roma!"</p><p>"羅馬!"</p>
<p>She raised herself, turned, saw him, and rose to her feet. Without a
word he opened his arms to her, and with a little frightened cry she
fell into them and was folded to his breast.<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00566" title="445"><a id="Page_445" title="445"></a></span></p><p>她挺身而起，轉身，看到了他，然後站了起來。他沒有說一句話就張開了雙臂，她發出一聲小小的、驚恐的叫喊，撲入他的懷抱。</p>
</body></html>
