<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <title>The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Eternal City, by Hall
  Caine.</title>
  <link href="190020258907861868_eternal-cover.jpg" id=
  "id-3637337646521578331" rel="icon" type="image/x-cover" />
  <link href="0.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  <link href="1.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  <link href="pgepub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" />
  <meta content="Ebookmaker 0.12.36 by Project Gutenberg" name=
  "generator" />
</head>
<body class="x-ebookmaker x-ebookmaker-3">
  <div style=
  "margin: auto; text-align: center; padding-top: 1em; padding-bottom: 1em;">
    <a id="PART_SIX_THE_ROMAN_OF_ROME"></a> <span class=
    "x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00300" title="237"><a id=
    "Page_237" title="237"></a></span>
    <h2 id="pgepubid00301">PART SIX—THE ROMAN OF ROME</h2>
  </div>
  <h3 id="pgepubid00302">I</h3>
  <p>Roma awoke next morning with a feeling of joy. The dangers of
  last night were over and David Rossi had escaped. Where would he
  be by this time? She looked at her little round watch and
  reckoned the hours that had passed against the speed of the
  train.</p>
  <p>"Roma在隔天早上帶著喜悅的心情醒來。昨夜的危險已經過去，David
  Rossi已經逃脫了。他現在將會在哪裡呢？她看著自己的小圓形手錶，將過去的幾個小時與火車的速度做了個對比。"</p>
  <p>Natalina came with the tea and the morning newspaper. The
  maid's tongue went faster than her hands as she rattled on about
  the terrors of the night and the news of the morning. Meantime
  Roma glanced eagerly over the columns of the paper for its
  references to Rossi. He was gone. The authorities were unable to
  say what had become of him.</p>
  <p>納塔麗娜帶著茶和晨報來了。 女僕的舌頭比她的手動得更快，當她談論夜晚的恐懼和早晨的新聞時，她顯得很焦躁。
  同時，羅馬急於檢視報紙上有關羅西的參考。 他走了。 當局無法說明他去了哪裡。</p>
  <p>With boundless relief Roma turned to the other items of
  intelligence. The journal was the organ of the Government, and it
  contained an extract from the Official Gazette and the text of a
  proclamation by the Prefect. The first announced that the riot
  was at an end and Rome was quiet; the second notified the public
  that by royal decree the city was declared to be in a state of
  siege, and that the King had nominated a Royal Commissioner with
  full powers.</p>
  <p>
  滿懷無窮的安慰，羅馬轉向其他情報項目。該日記是政府的機關報，它包含了官方公報的一段摘要和總督的一項公告。第一項宣佈騷亂已經結束，羅馬市恢復平靜；第二項告知公眾，皇家法令已宣佈城市進入緊急狀態，國王已任命擁有全權的皇家專員。</p>
  <p>Besides this news there was a general account of the
  insurrection. The ringleaders were anarchists, socialists, and
  professed atheists, determined on the destruction of both throne
  and altar by any means, however horrible. Their victims had been
  drawn, without seeing where they were going, into a vortex of
  disorder, and the soldiers had defended society and the law.
  Happily the casualties were few. The only fatal incident had been
  the death of a child, seven years of age, the son of a workman.
  The people of Rome had to congratulate themselves on the
  promptness of a Government which had reinstated authority with so
  small a loss of blood.</p>
  <p>
  除了這則消息外，還有對起義的一般描述。首謀者是無政府主義者，社會主義者和公開的無神論者，他們決心以任何無論多麼可怕的手段來摧毀王位和祭壇。他們的受害者被引入了一個他們看不見的混亂漩渦中，而士兵們則在捍衛社會和法律。幸運的是，傷亡人數很少。唯一致命的事件是一個七歲的孩子死亡，他是一個工人的兒子。羅馬人民必須對一個政府的迅速行動表示祝賀，該政府以如此小的流血代價恢復了權威。</p>
  <p>Roma remembered what Rossi had said about Elena—"Think of
  Elena when she awakes in the morning, alone<span class=
  "x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00303" title="238"><a id=
  "Page_238" title="238"></a></span> with her terrible grief"—and
  putting on a plain dark cloth dress she set off for the Piazza
  Navona.</p>
  <p>
  "羅馬回憶起羅西對伊萊娜的話——「想想早上醒來的伊萊娜，她孤獨地承受著那無盡的悲痛」——她換上一件深色簡單的布料製成的連衣裙，然後朝著納沃納廣場出發。"</p>
  <p>It was eleven o'clock, and the sun was shining on the melting
  snow. Rome was like a dead city. The breath of revolution had
  passed over it. Broken tiles lay on the pavement of the slushy
  streets, and here and there were the remains of abandoned
  barricades. The shops, which are the eyes of a city, were nearly
  all closed and asleep.</p>
  <p>
  現在是十一點，陽光照射在融化的雪上。羅馬像是一座死城。革命的氣息已經掠過了這裡。破碎的瓷磚鋪在濕滑的街道上，偶爾可以看到被遺棄的路障的殘骸。城市的眼睛——商店，幾乎都已經關閉，沉睡了。</p>
  <p>At a flower-shop, which was opened to her knock, Roma bought a
  wreath of white chrysanthemums. A group of men and women stood at
  the door in the Piazza Navona, and she received their kisses on
  her hands. The Garibaldian followed her up the stairs, and his
  old wife, who stood at the top, called her "Little Sister," and
  then burst into tears.</p>
  <p>
  在一家回應她敲門而開啟的花店，羅馬買了一個白菊花的花環。一群男人和女人站在納沃納廣場的門口，她在接受他們在她的手上親吻。這個加里波第義勇軍士兵跟著她上樓，他的老婆站在樓梯頂部，叫她"小妹妹"，然後突然哭了起來。</p>
  <p>The boy lay on the couch, just where Roma had first seen him,
  when David Rossi was lifting him up asleep. He might have been
  asleep now, so peaceful was his expression under the mysterious
  seal of death. The blinds were drawn, and the sun came through
  them with a yellow light. Four candles were burning on chairs at
  the head and two at the feet. The little body was still dressed
  in the gay clothes of the festival, and the cocked hat and
  gilt-headed mace lay beside it. But the chubby hands were clasped
  over a tiny crucifix, and the hair of the shock head was brushed
  smooth and flat.</p>
  <p>
  男孩躺在沙發上，就在羅馬第一次見到他的地方，當時大衛·羅西正在將他抱起來時，他可能會睡著。現在，他可能已經睡著了，因為他的表情在死亡的神秘印記下顯得如此平靜。窗簾被拉上，陽光透過它們撒出黃色的光。在頭部的椅子上有四支蠟燭在燃燒，在腳邊的地方有兩支。小小的身體還穿著節日的歡樂服裝，三角帽和金色頭頂的權杖放在旁邊。但是，胖嘟嘟的手緊握著一個小小的十字架，而那頭亂糟糟的頭發被梳理得平平整整。</p>
  <p>"There he is," said Elena, in a cracked voice, and she went
  down on her knees between the candles.</p>
  <p>"他就在那裡," Elena 感嘆，她的聲音有些沙啞。然後她在蠟燭之間跪了下來。</p>
  <p>Roma, who could not speak, put the wreath of chrysanthemums on
  the brave little breast, and knelt by the mother's side. At that
  they all broke down together.</p>
  <p>羅馬，無法言說，將菊花的花環放在了勇敢的小胸膛上，並跪在母親的旁邊。那時，他們全部一同崩潰了。</p>
  <p>The old Garibaldian wiped his rheumy eyes and began to talk of
  David Rossi. He was as fond of Joseph as if the boy had been his
  own son. But what had become of the Honourable? Before daybreak
  the police had made a domiciliary perquisition in the apartment,
  carried off his papers and sealed up his rooms.</p>
  <p>
  `那位年老的加里波第老兵擦了擦他淚汪汪的眼睛，開始談起大衛·羅西。他對約瑟夫的喜愛如同這個男孩是他自己的兒子一般。但榮譽者去哪裡了呢？天亮之前，警察已經在公寓裡進行了家庭搜尋，帶走了他的文件，封鎖了他的房間。`</p>
  <p>"Have no fear for him," said Roma, and then she asked about
  Bruno. All they knew was that Bruno had been arrested and locked
  up in the prison called Regina C[oe]li.</p>
  <p>"不要為他擔心," 羅馬說，然後她問起布魯諾。他們所知道的只是布魯諾被逮捕並被關在被稱為Regina
  C[oe]li的監獄裡。</p>
  <p>"Poor Bruno! He'll be dying to know what is happening here,"
  said Elena.</p>
  <p>"可憐的布魯諾！他一定很想知道這裡發生了什麼事情，"艾琳娜說。</p>
  <p>"I'll see him," said Roma.</p>
  <p>"我將去見他，" Roma說。</p>
  <p>It was well she had come early. In the stupefaction of their
  sorrow the three poor souls were like helpless
  children<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00304"
  title="239"><a id="Page_239" title="239"></a></span> and had done
  nothing. Roma sent the Garibaldian to the sanitary office for the
  doctor who was to verify the death, to the office of health to
  register it, and to the municipal office to arrange for the
  funeral. It was to be a funeral of the third category, with a
  funeral car of two horses and a coach with liveried coachmen. The
  grave was to be one of the little vaults, the Fornelli, set apart
  for children. The priest was to be instructed to buy many candles
  and order several Frati. The expense would be great, but Roma
  undertook to bear it, and when she left the house the old people
  kissed her hands again and loaded her with blessings.</p>
  <p>
  `她提早過來實在是件好事。那三個可憐的人在他們的悲痛中呆若木雞，就像無助的孩子一樣，什麼也沒做。羅馬派Garibaldian去衛生辦公室找來要證實死亡的醫生，到衛生辦公室去登記死亡，並到市政辦公室安排葬禮。這將是一個三類的葬禮，有兩匹馬的靈車和一輛有制服的教練。墳墓將是一個設立給孩子們的小圈圈，
  Fornelli。牧師將被指示購買許多蠟燭並下令多位Frati。開支會很大，但羅馬讓自己承擔，當她離開房子時，老人再一次親吻她的手並祝她天佑。`</p>
  <h3 id="pgepubid00305">II</h3>
  <p>The Roman prison with the extraordinary name, "The Queen of
  Heaven," is a vast yellow building on the Trastevere side of the
  river. Behind it rises the Janiculum, in front of it runs the
  Tiber, and on both sides of it are narrow lanes cut off by high
  walls.</p>
  <p>
  稱為「天堂之后」的羅馬監獄是一座位於特拉斯提夫列河畔巨大的黃色建築物。其背後是詹尼庫倫山,前面是台伯河,兩側都是被高牆隔開的狹窄小巷。</p>
  <p>On the morning after the insurrection a great many persons had
  gathered at the entrance of this prison. Old men, who were lame
  or sick or nearly blind, stood by a dead wall which divides the
  street from the Tiber, and looked on with dazed and vacant eyes.
  Younger men nearer the entrance read the proclamations posted up
  on the pilasters. One of these was the proclamation of the
  Prefect announcing the state of siege; another was the
  proclamation of the Royal Commissioner calling on citizens to
  consign all the arms in their possession to the Chief of Police
  under pain of imprisonment.</p>
  <p>
  在起義的次日早晨，很多人聚集在這所監獄的入口。一些老年人，他們或跛腳、或病弱、或視力幾乎喪失了，便站在一面將街道隔開的四處無聲的牆沿旁，帶著迷惑而空洞的眼神凝視著。更為年輕的人則靠近入口，閱讀馳柱上貼出的公告。其中一項是總督宣佈進入圍城狀態的公告；另一項是皇家專員呼籲市民將所有他們持有的武器交給警察局長，否則將面臨監禁的公告。</p>
  <p>In the entrance-hall there was a crowd of women, each carrying
  a basket or a bundle in a handkerchief. They were young and old,
  dressed variously as if from different provinces, but nearly all
  poor, untidy, and unkempt.</p>
  <p>
  在入口大廳，有一群女人，每個人都手裡提著籃子或手帕裡的捆。他們年齡各異，身著不同省份的服裝，但幾乎都是貧窮，不整潔和凌亂的。</p>
  <p>An iron gate was opened, and an officer, two soldiers, and a
  warder came out to take the food which the women had brought for
  their relatives imprisoned within. Then there was a terrible
  tumult. "Mr. Officer, please!" "Please, Mr. Officer!" "Be kind to
  Giuseppe, and the saints bless you!" "My turn next!" "No, mine!"
  "Don't push!" "You're pushing yourself!" "You're knocking the
  basket out of my hands!" "Getaway!" "You cat!
  You...."<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00306"
  title="240"><a id="Page_240" title="240"></a></span></p>
  <p>
  "鐵閘開啟，一位軍官，兩名士兵和一名典獄長走出來取得女人們為囚犯親人帶來的食物。然後發生了可怕的騷動。「先生，請！」「請，先生！」「請告訴Giuseppe,神會保佑你的！」「我下一個！」‘不，是我！」‘別推！’‘您是在推自己！」‘你把籃子從我手中擊落了！」‘走開！’‘你這貓！你...."</p>
  <p>"Silence! Silence! Silence!" cried the officer, shouting the
  women down, and meantime the men in the street outside curled
  their lips and tried to laugh.</p>
  <p>"安靜！安靜！安靜！"官員喊道，以他的聲音壓制住那些婦女的聲音，與此同時，街上的男人們撇起嘴唇，努力想要笑出來。</p>
  <p>Into this wild scene, full of the acrid exhalations of human
  breath, and the nauseating odour of unclean bodies, but moved,
  nevertheless, by the finger of God Himself, the cab which brought
  Roma to see Bruno discharged her at the prison door.</p>
  <p>
  這個瘋狂的場景中，充滿了人類呼吸的刺鼻氣息和骯髒身體的令人作嘔的氣味，但無論如何，它仍被上帝自己的手指所驅動，帶著羅馬去見布魯諾的的出租車，在監獄門口放下她。</p>
  <p>The officer on the steps saw her over the heads of the women
  with their outstretched arms, and judging from her appearance
  that she came on other business, he called to a Carabineer to
  attend to her.</p>
  <p>
  那位在臺階上的警官透過那些伸出手臂的女士們的頭頂看見了她，並從她的外表判斷她來是另有事情，所以他叫了一名Carabineer來接待她。</p>
  <p>"I wish to see the Director," said Roma.</p>
  <p>"我希望見到主任，" 羅馬說。</p>
  <p>"Certainly, Excellency," said the Carabineer, and with a
  salute he led the way by a side door to the offices on the floor
  above.</p>
  <p>"當然，閣下，"憲兵說，他敬了一個禮，然後通過側側門帶路去了樓上的辦公室。</p>
  <p>The Governor of Regina C[oe]li was a middle-aged man with a
  kindly face, but under the new order he could do nothing.</p>
  <p>"利金納天使之王監獄的總督是一位面帶善意的中年男子，但在新的秩序下，他無法做任何事情。"</p>
  <p>"Everything relating to the political prisoners is in the
  hands of the Royal Commissioner," he said.</p>
  <p>"所有與政治囚犯相關的事物都在皇家專員的手中,"他說。</p>
  <p>"Where can I see him, Cavaliere?"</p>
  <p>"我在哪裡可以見到他，騎士?"</p>
  <p>"He is with the Minister of War to-day, arranging for the
  military tribunals, but perhaps to-morrow at his office in the
  Castle of St. Angelo...."</p>
  <p>"他今天正在與戰爭部長一起，安排軍事法庭，但也許明天在聖安吉洛城堡的辦公室...."</p>
  <p>"Thanks! Meantime can I send a message into the prison?"</p>
  <p>"謝謝！那我可以傳遞訊息到監獄裡嗎？"</p>
  <p>"Yes."</p>
  <p>"是的。"</p>
  <p>"And may I pay for a separate cell for a prisoner, with food
  and light, if necessary?"</p>
  <p>"我可以付款為囚犯提供一個單獨的牢房，如果需要的話，還包括食物和光線嗎？"</p>
  <p>"Undoubtedly."</p>
  <p>"無疑地。"</p>
  <p>Roma undertook the expense of these privileges and then
  scribbled a note to Bruno.</p>
  <p>"羅馬承擔了這些特權的費用，然後給布魯諾寫了一張便箋。"</p>
  <p style="padding-top:.5em">"<span class="smcap">Dear
  Friend</span>,—Don't lose heart! Your dear ones shall be cared
  for and comforted. He whom you love is safe and your darling is
  in heaven. Sleep well! These days will pass.</p>
  <p style="padding-top:.5em">
  "親愛的朋友，請不要洩氣！你所愛的人將會得到關懷和安慰。你所愛的他是安全的，你的愛人在天堂。睡得安穩吧！這些日子將會過去。"</p>
  <p style="text-align:right; margin-top:-1em;">"R. V."</p>
  <h3 id="pgepubid00307">III</h3>
  <p>That night Roma wrote the first part of a letter to David
  Rossi:</p>
  <p>那天晚上，羅馬開始寫給大衛·羅西的信的第一部分：</p>
  <p style="padding-top:.5em">"David—my David! It is early days to
  call you by a<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00308"
  title="241"><a id="Page_241" title="241"></a></span> dearer name,
  but the sweet word is on the tip of my pen, and I can hardly help
  myself from scribbling it. You wished me to tell you what is
  happening in Rome, and here I am beginning to write already,
  though when and how and where this letter is to reach you, I must
  leave it to Fate and to yourself to determine. Fancy! Only
  eighteen hours since we parted! It seems inconceivable! I feel as
  if I had lived a lifetime.</p>
  <p style="padding-top:.5em">
  "大衛－我的大衛！稱呼你為更親密的名字還為時過早，但甜蜜的字眼就懸於我筆尖，我幾乎忍不住自己未把它譯下來。你希望我告訴你羅馬正在發生的事情，所以我現在已經開始寫了，雖然我必須留給命運和你自己來決定這封信何時、如何和在哪裡抵達你。想象一下！我們才分開十八個小時！這似乎難以想像！我覺得好像過了一輩子。"</p>
  <p>"Do you know, I did not go to bed when you left me. I had so
  many things to think about. And, tired as I was, I slept little,
  and was up early. The morning dawned beautifully. It was
  perfectly tragic. So bright and sunny after that night of
  slaughter. No rattle of cars, no tinkle of trams, no calls of the
  water-carriers and of the pedlars in the streets. It was for all
  the world like that awful quiet of the sea the morning after a
  tempest, with the sun on its placid surface and not a hint of the
  wrecks beneath.</p>
  <p>
  "你知道嗎，當你離開我時，我並沒有去睡覺。我有太多事情要思考。儘管我很疲倦，但我仍然睡得很少，早早就起床了。早晨開始出現美麗的曙光，這實在太悲劇了。那樣明亮和陽光燦爛的天氣，就在那個屠殺的夜晚之後。沒有汽車的嘈雜聲音，沒有電車的叮噹聲，沒有街頭水貨商和小販的吆喝。這簡直就像海洋在風暴過後的那種可怕的寧靜，太陽照在平靜的海面上，沉船的身影都不見了。"</p>
  <p>"I remembered what you said about Elena, and went down to see
  her. The poor girl has just parted with her dead child. She did
  it with a brave heart, God pity her! taking comfort in the
  Blessed Virgin, as the mother in heaven who knows all our sorrows
  and asks God to heal them. Ah, what a sweet thing it must be to
  believe that! Do you believe it?"</p>
  <p>"我記得你對艾琳娜所說的話，所以我下去看她。可憐的女孩剛與她死去的孩子分別。她帶著勇敢的心去面對，上帝可憐她！
  她在聖母瑪利亞處找到安慰，因為她是天堂中的母親，知道我們所有的悲傷，並向上帝求慰籍。噢，相信這一點一定是多麼甜蜜的事！你相信這個嗎？"</p>
  <p>Here she wanted to say something about her great secret. She
  tried, but she could not do it.</p>
  <p>她在這裡想要談論她的重大秘密。她試圖這樣做，但沒能成功。</p>
  <p>"I couldn't see Bruno to-day, but I hope to do so to-morrow,
  and meantime I have ordered food to be supplied to him. If I
  could only do something to some purpose! But five hundred of your
  friends are in Regina Cœli, and my poor little efforts are a drop
  of water in a mighty ocean.</p>
  <p>
  "今天我無法見到Bruno，但我希望明天可以見到他，與此同時，我已經下令為他提供食物。如果我能做些有意義的事就好了！但你的五百個朋友都在Regina
  Cœli，我微薄的努力就像滴水入海。"</p>
  <p>"Rome is a deserted city to-day, and but for the soldiers, who
  are everywhere, it would look like a dead one! The steps of the
  Piazza di Spagna are empty, not a model is to be seen, not a
  flower is to be bought, and the fountain is bubbling in silence.
  After sunset a certain shiver passes over the world, and after an
  insurrection something of the same kind seems to pass over a
  city. The churches and the hospitals are the only places open,
  and the doctors and their messengers are the only people moving
  about.</p>
  <p>
  "今天，羅馬是一座荒涼的城市，如果不是到處都有的士兵，它看起來就像一座死城！西班牙廣場的臺階空無一人，看不到一個模特，買不到一朵花，而噴泉在沉默中湧出。日落後，世界似乎帶著某種顫抖，叛亂之後，城市似乎也帶著類似的感覺。教堂和醫院是唯一開放的地方，醫生和他們的信使是唯一在外面活動的人。"</p>
  <p>"Just one of the newspapers has been published to-day, and it
  is full of proclamations. Everybody is to be indoors by nine
  o'clock and the cafés are to be closed at eight. Arms<span class=
  "x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00309" title="242"><a id=
  "Page_242" title="242"></a></span> are to be consigned at the
  Questura, and meetings of more than four persons are strictly
  forbidden. Rewards of pardon are offered to all rioters who will
  inform on the ringleaders of the insurrection, and of money to
  all citizens who will denounce the conspirators. The military
  tribunals are to sit to-morrow and domiciliary visitations are
  already being made. Your own apartments have been searched and
  sealed and the police have carried off papers.</p>
  <p>
  "只有一家報紙在今天出版了，裡面充滿了公告。每個人必須在晚上九點前待在室內，咖啡館必須在八點關閉。武器必須寄存在警察廳，四人以上的集會嚴禁。對於願意揭發暴動首謀者的暴動者，政府提供赦免的獎勵，對於願意揭發陰謀者的公民，政府提供金錢獎勵。軍事法庭將於明天開庭，戶籍訪問已經開始進行。你自己的公寓已經被搜尋並封鎖，警察已經帶走了文件。"</p>
  <p style="padding-bottom:.5em">"Such are the doings of this evil
  day, and yet—selfish woman that I am—I cannot for my life think
  it is all evil. Has it not given me you? And if it has taken you
  away from me as well, I can wait, I can be patient. Where are you
  now, I wonder? And are you thinking of me while I am thinking of
  you? Oh, how splendid! Think of it! Though the train may be
  carrying you away from me every hour and every minute, before
  long we shall be together. In the first dream of the first sleep
  I shall join you, and we shall be cheek to cheek and heart to
  heart. Good-night, my dear one!"</p>
  <p style="padding-bottom:.5em">
  "這些就是這惡劣日子的所作所為，然而——我這樣的自私女人－我還是無法完全認為這全是惡劣的、沒有不好的。這難道沒有帶給我你嗎？如果它也從我這裡帶走了你，我可以等待，我可以忍耐。你現在在哪裡，我想知道？你是否在我想你的時候，也在想我？哦，多麼壯觀！想想看！儘管火車可能每時每刻都在把你帶離我，但不久我們就會在一起。在第一次睡眠的第一個夢中，我將與你相聚，我們將面貼面，心連心。親愛的，晚安！"</p>
  <p>Again she tried to say something about her secret. But no!
  "Not to-night," she thought, and after switching off the light
  and kissing her hand in the darkness to the stars that hung over
  the north, she laughed at her own foolishness and went to
  bed.</p>
  <p>
  `她再次試圖說些關於她的秘密的事情。但不！"今晚不行"，她這麼想，並在關掉燈且在黑暗中向掛在北方的星星吻了吻自己的手後，她笑著自己的愚蠢並上了床。`</p>
  <h3 id="pgepubid00310">IV</h3>
  <p>Roma awoke next day with a sense of pain. Thus far she had
  beaten the Baron—yes! But David Rossi? Had she sinned against God
  and against her husband? She must confess. There was no help for
  it. And there must be no hesitation and no delay.</p>
  <p>羅馬第二天醒來，感到心痛。到目前為止，她已經擊敗了男爵——對，這是肯定的！
  但是大衛·羅西呢？她是否已經得罪了上帝和她的丈夫？她必須去告解。再也無法逃避了。她必須立即而且毫不猶豫地做出行動。</p>
  <p>Natalina came into the bedroom and threw open the shutters.
  She was bringing a telegram, and Roma almost snatched it out of
  her hands. It was from Rossi and had been sent off from Chiasso.
  "Crossed frontier safe and well."</p>
  <p>
  "納塔利娜走進臥室，猛地打開了百葉窗。她帶來了一份電報，羅馬幾乎從她手中搶走了它。這是來自羅西的電報，從基亞索發出。"已安全過境，狀況良好。"</p>
  <p>Roma made a cry of joy and leapt out of bed. All day long that
  telegram was like wings under her heels and made her walk with an
  elastic step.</p>
  <p>羅馬歡呼一聲，跳出床來。那封電報使她一整天下來都如走在雲端，使她走路都帶著彈性的步伐。</p>
  <p>While taking her coffee she remembered the responsibilities
  she had undertaken the day before—for the boy's funeral and
  Bruno's maintenance—and for the first time in her
  life<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00311" title=
  "243"><a id="Page_243" title="243"></a></span> she began to
  consider ways and means. Her ready money was getting low, and it
  was necessary to do something.</p>
  <p>
  她在喝咖啡的時候，回想起了前一天所承擔的責任——為男孩的葬禮和布魯諾的維護費用——這是她一生中首次考慮如何籌措資金。她的現金已經越來越少，必須要做些什麼。</p>
  <p>Then Felice came with a sheaf of papers. They were tradesmen's
  bills and required immediate payment. Some of the men were below
  and refused to go away without the cash.</p>
  <p>然後，費利斯帶著一疊文件過來。這些都是工匠的賬單，需要立即付款。有些人就在樓下，他們拒絕在沒有款項的情況下離開。</p>
  <p>There was no help for it. She opened her purse, discharged her
  debts, swept her debtors out of the house, and sat down to count
  what remained.</p>
  <p>沒有任何援助可言。她打開了錢包，清償了債務，把債主趕出了房子，然後坐下來數算剩餘的錢。</p>
  <p>Very little remained. But what matter? The five words of that
  telegram were five bright stars which could light up a darker sky
  than had fallen on her yet.</p>
  <p>"剩下的不多。但這又有什麼關係呢？ 那個電報的五個字是五顆明亮的星星，能照亮比她迄今遇到的更黑暗的天空。"</p>
  <p>In this high mood she went down to the studio—silent now in
  the absence of the humorous voice that usually rang in it, and
  with Bruno's chisels and mallet lying idle, with his sack on a
  block of half-hewn marble. Uncovering her fountain, she looked at
  it again. It was good work; she knew it was good; she could be
  certain it was good. It should justify her yet, and some day the
  stupid people who were sheering away from her now would come
  cringing to her feet afresh.</p>
  <p>
  在這種高昂的情緒中，她走下工作室。工作室裡現在一片寂靜，因為常常在其中迴響的幽默聲音已經消失，布魯諾的雕塑刀和錘子也閒置著，他的麻袋擺在一塊半雕成的大理石上。她揭開了自己的噴泉，再次端詳。這是好工作，她知道那是優秀的，她能確定那是好的。它應該能證明她的價值，有一天，現在正在避開她的那些愚蠢的人們將重新向她磕頭。</p>
  <p>That suggested thoughts of the Mayor. She would write to him
  and get some money with which to meet the expenses of yesterday
  as well as the obligations which she might perhaps incur to-day
  or in the future.</p>
  <p>那讓她想到了市長。她將會寫信給他，以獲取一些錢來支付昨天的費用，以及她可能會在今天或未來承擔的責任。</p>
  <p>"Dear Senator Palomba," she wrote, "no doubt you have often
  wondered why your much-valued commission has not been completed
  before. The fact is that it suffered a slight accident a few days
  ago, but a week or a fortnight ought to see it finished, and if
  you wish to make arrangements for its reception you may count on
  its delivery in that time. Meantime as I am pressed for funds at
  the moment, I shall be glad if you can instruct your treasurer at
  the Municipality to let me have something on account. The price
  mentioned, you remember, was 15,000 francs, and as I have not had
  anything hitherto, I trust it may not be unreasonable to ask for
  half now, leaving the remainder until the fountain is in its
  place."</p>
  <p>
  "親愛的Palomba參議員，"她寫道，"您肯定經常懷疑為什麼您非常珍視的委託還沒有完成。事實上，它幾天前遇到了一點小問題，但一週或兩週應該能完成，如果您希望安排接收，您可以依賴在這段時間內交付。與此同時，由於我目前資金短缺，如果您能指示市政府的財務主管給我一些預付款，我將很樂意。您記得，提到的價格是15,000法郎，由於我到現在還未收到任何金額，故我希望現在可先要求一半，餘額等噴泉就位後再結算。"</p>
  <p>Having despatched this challenge by Felice, not only to the
  Mayor, but also to herself, her pride, her poverty, and to the
  great world generally, she put on her cloak and hat and drove
  down to the Castle of St. Angelo.</p>
  <p>
  "她不僅透過Felice向市長，也向自己，她的驕傲，她的貧窮，和整個大世界發出了這項挑戰之後，她披上了披風和帽子，開車下到聖安吉洛堡。"</p>
  <p>When she returned, an hour afterwards, there was a
  dry<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00312" title=
  "244"><a id="Page_244" title="244"></a></span> glitter in her
  eyes, which increased to a look of fever when she opened the
  drawing-room door and saw who was waiting there. It was the Mayor
  himself. The little oily man in patent-leather boots, holding
  upright his glossy silk hat, was clearly nervous and confused. He
  complimented her on her appearance, looked out of the window,
  extolled the view, and finally, with his back to his hostess,
  began on his business.</p>
  <p>
  當她一小時後回來時，她的眼睛中閃耀出乾燥的光芒，當她打開客廳的門，看到裡面等待的人，這種光芒變成了燃燒的熱情。那個人是市長。這個小小的、滑膩的男人穿著專利皮靴，正立正地拿著他的光滑絲帽，顯然是緊張和困惑的。他讚揚她的外表，看向窗外，讚美了景色，然後，背對著主人，開始了他的事情。</p>
  <p>"It is about your letter, you know," he said awkwardly. "There
  seems to be a little misunderstanding on your part. About the
  fountain, I mean."</p>
  <p>"關於你的信，你知道，"他尷尬地說。"你似乎有點誤解。我是說，關於噴泉的事。"</p>
  <p>"None whatever, Senator. You ordered it. I have executed it.
  Surely the matter is quite simple."</p>
  <p>"絕對沒有，參議員。您下的命令，我已經執行了。這件事情應該非常簡單。"</p>
  <p>"Impossible, my dear. I may have encouraged you to an
  experimental trial. We all do that. Rome is eager to discover
  genius. But a simple member of a corporate body cannot undertake
  ... that is to say, on his own responsibility, you know...."</p>
  <p>
  "不可能，我親愛的。我可能有鼓勵你進行實驗性試驗。我們都這麼做。羅馬渴望發現天才。但是，一個簡單的公司體成員不能承擔......也就是說，他自己的責任，你知道...."</p>
  <p>Roma's breath began to come quickly. "Do you mean that you
  didn't commission my fountain?"</p>
  <p>"羅馬的呼吸開始變得急促。"你是說，你沒有委託我設計這個噴泉？"</p>
  <p>"How could I, my child? Such matters must go through a regular
  form. The proper committee must sanction and resolve...."</p>
  <p>"我怎能這樣做，我的孩子呢？這類事務必須按正規程序辦理。必須由恰當的委員會進行審批和解決...."</p>
  <p>"But everybody has known of this, and it has been generally
  understood from the first."</p>
  <p>"但每個人都已經知道這件事，並且從一開始就普遍的被理解。"</p>
  <p>"Ah, understood! Possibly! Rumour and report perhaps."</p>
  <p>"啊，瞭解了！可能吧！可能只是傳聞和報告而已。"</p>
  <p>"But I could bring witnesses—high witnesses—the very highest
  if needs be...."</p>
  <p>"但我可以帶來證人——高階的證人——如果需要的話，甚至是最高階的證人...."</p>
  <p>The little man smiled benevolently.</p>
  <p>那個小男人慈祥地笑了。</p>
  <p>"Surely there is no witness of any standing in the State who
  would go into a witness-box and say that, without a contract, and
  with only a few encouraging words...."</p>
  <p>"肯定沒有任何地位的證人會在沒有合同，只有一些鼓勵的話語的情況下進入證人席……"</p>
  <p>The dry glitter in Roma's eyes shot into a look of anger. "Do
  you call your letters to me a few encouraging words only?" she
  said.</p>
  <p>羅馬眼中的乾涸閃爍轉變為憤怒的神色。 “你稱你給我的信只是幾句鼓舞人心的話嗎？”她說。</p>
  <p>"My letters?" the glossy hat was getting ruffled.</p>
  <p>"我的信件？"亮麗的帽子正在被弄亂。</p>
  <p>"Your letters alluding to this matter, and enumerating the
  favours you wished me to ask of the Prime Minister."</p>
  <p>"您的信件提及此事，並列舉了您希望我向總理提出的請求。"</p>
  <p>"My dear," said the Mayor after a moment, "I'm sorry if I have
  led you to build up hopes, and though I have no authority ... if
  it will end matters amicably ... I think I can promise ... I
  might perhaps promise a little money for your loss of
  time."<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00313" title=
  "245"><a id="Page_245" title="245"></a></span></p>
  <p>
  "親愛的，"市長遲疑了一會兒後說，"如果我讓你抱著希望但卻令你失望，我深感抱歉，雖然我沒有這個權力...如果這能和平解決問題...我想我可以承諾...可能我可以給你一點錢作為你損失的時間的補償。"</p>
  <p>"Do you suppose I want charity?"</p>
  <p>"你覺得我需要施捨嗎？"</p>
  <p>"Charity, my dear?"</p>
  <p>"親愛的，要做慈善嗎？"</p>
  <p>"What else would it be? If I have no right to everything I
  will have nothing. I will take none of your money. You can leave
  me."</p>
  <p>"那會是什麼呢？如果我沒有權利擁有一切，我便一無所有。我不會拿你的錢。你可以離開我。"</p>
  <p>The little man shuffled his feet, and bowed himself out of the
  room, with many apologies and praises which Roma did not hear.
  For all her brave words her heart was breaking, and she was
  holding her breath to repress a sob. The great bulwark she had
  built up for herself lay wrecked at her feet. She had deceived
  herself into believing that she could be somebody for herself.
  Going down to the studio, she covered up the fountain. It had
  lost every quality which she had seen in it before. Art was gone
  from her. She was nobody. It was very, very cruel.</p>
  <p>
  這個小個子男人踱著步，滿懷道歉和讚美的言詞，躬身退出了房間，而羅馬並未聽見。儘管她堅強地說出了這些字眼，但她的心快要碎了，她強忍著淚水。她為自己築起的堅固防線已經在她腳下破碎。她曾欺騙自己，認為她能夠為了自己而成為一個人。她走下工作室，覆蓋了噴泉。它已經失去了她之前在其中看到的所有品質。藝術已經從她生活中消失。她已經不再是任何人。這真的，真的太殘酷了。</p>
  <p>But that glorious telegram rustled in her breast like a
  captive song-bird, and before going to bed she wrote to David
  Rossi again.</p>
  <p>但那令人欣喜的電報在她胸口裡像被俘的鳥兒一樣鳴叫，並在睡覺前再次寫信給David Rossi。</p>
  <p>"Your message arrived before I was up this morning, and not
  being entirely back from the world of dreams, I fancied that it
  was an angel's whisper. This is silly, but I wouldn't change it
  for the greatest wisdom, if, in order to be the most wise and
  wonderful among women, I had to love you less.</p>
  <p>
  "你的訊息在我今天早上起床之前就到達了，我還沒有完全從夢境中回來，我以為那是天使的耳語。這是愚蠢的，但是我不會為了最大的智慧去改變它，如果要成為女人中最明智和最神奇的，我必須減少對你的愛。"</p>
  <p>"Business first and other things afterwards. Most of the
  newspapers have been published to-day, and some of them are
  blowing themselves out of breath in abuse of you, and howling
  louder than the wolves of the Capitol before rain. The military
  courts began this morning, and they have already polished off
  fifty victims. Rewards for denunciations have now deepened to
  threats of imprisonment for non-denunciation. General Morra,
  Minister of War, has sent in his resignation, and there is
  bracing weather in the neighbourhood of the Palazzo Braschi. An
  editor has been arrested, many journals and societies have been
  suppressed, and twenty thousand of the contadini who came to Rome
  for the meeting in the Coliseum have been despatched to their own
  communes. Finally, the Royal Commissioner has written to the
  Pope, calling on him to assist in the work of pacifying the
  people, and it is rumoured that the Holy Office is to be
  petitioned by certain of the Bishops to denounce the 'Republic of
  Man' as a secret society (like the Freemasons) coming within the
  ban of the Pontifical constitutions.</p>
  <p>
  "事業始於其他事物之後。今天出版了大部分的報紙，其中一些報紙因為對你的辱罵而氣得快要窒息，他們比賈比托萊恩前的狼叫得還要大聲。軍方法院今早開始審理案件，他們已經迅速審結了五十名受害者。現在，對於揭發者的獎賞已經加深到對未揭發者的監禁威脅。國防部長摩拉將軍已經提交了他的辭呈，
  布拉士奇宮附近的氣候變得很嚴峻。一名編輯已被逮捕，許多期刊和社團已被遣散，來羅馬參加大競技場會議的兩萬名農民已被派遣回他們自己的公社。最後，皇家專員已經寫信給教宗，要求他協助平息人民的騷動，並且有傳言說，一些主教將請求神聖辦公室譴責'人的共和國'這個秘密社會（如共濟會），認為他們違反了教宗的憲法。"</p>
  <p>"So much for general news, and now for more
  personal<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00314"
  title="246"><a id="Page_246" title="246"></a></span>
  intelligence. I went down to the Castle of St. Angelo this
  morning, and was permitted to speak to the Royal Commissioner.
  Recognised him instantly as a regular old-timer at the heels of
  the Baron, and tackled him on our ancient terms. The wretch—he
  squints, and he smoked a cigarette all through the
  interview—couldn't allow me to see Bruno during the private
  preparation of the case against him, and when I asked if the
  instruction would take long he said, 'Probably, as it is
  complicated by the case of some one else who is not yet in
  custody.' Then I asked if I might employ separate counsel for the
  defence, and he shuffled and said it was unnecessary. This
  decided me, and I walked straight to the office of the great
  lawyer Napoleon Fuselli, promised him five hundred francs by
  to-morrow morning, and told him to go ahead without delay.</p>
  <p>
  對於一般的新聞來說已經足夠了，現在我們來談談更個人的情報。我今天早上去了聖安吉洛城堡，並得以與皇家專員對話。我立刻認出他是那個常年跟隨巴倫的老手，並且按照我們的古老條款對他進行了詢問。那個惡棍——他斜視著，並且在整個訪談過程中都在抽煙——不允許我在對布魯諾的案件進行私下準備時見到他，當我詢問這個程序會不會很長時，他說，「可能會很長，因為還牽涉到一個還沒有被拘留的人的案件。」然後我問我是否可以為辯護聘請單獨的律師，他搖晃了一下說這是不必要的。這使我做出了決定，我直接走到了大律師拿破崙·富塞利的辦公室，答應他明天早上給他五百法郎，並告訴他不要延遲開始工作。</p>
  <p>"But heigh-ho, nonny! Coming home I felt like the witches in
  'Macbeth.' 'By the pricking of my thumbs, something wicked this
  way comes.' It was Senator Tom-tit, the little fat Mayor of Rome.
  His great ambition is to wear the green ribbon of St. Maurice and
  Lazarus, as none know better than myself. Wanting money on my
  fountain, I had written to the old wretch, but the moment we met
  I could see what was coming, so I braved it out, bustled about
  and made a noise. It was a mistake! There had been no commission
  at all! But if a little money would repay me for a loss of
  time....</p>
  <p>
  "但是，哎喲，我還是要這樣做！回家的路上，我感覺就像是在《馬克白》中的那些巫婆一樣。'當我的拇指感到刺痛的時候，一些邪惡的事情就要來了。'那就是湯姆特議員，這個羅馬的小胖子市長。他最大的夢想就是要佩戴聖莫瑞斯和拉撒路斯的綠帶，這一點我比誰都清楚。我想在我之前的噴水池上資金不足，我就寫信給這個老鬼，但當我們見面的時候，我立刻就看出來他是來做什麼的，所以我硬著頭皮，忙碌地搬動東西，製造騷動。這真是一個錯誤！我根本沒有得到任何委託！但是如果一些小金子能彌補我浪費的時間...."</p>
  <p>"It wasn't so much that I cared about the loss of the fees,
  badly as I needed them. It was mainly that I had allowed the
  summer flies who buzzed about me for the Baron's sake to flatter
  me into the notion that I was an artist, when I was really nobody
  for myself at all.</p>
  <p>
  "並不是因為我在乎失去那些費用的損失，儘管我真的很需要它們。主要是我讓那些在夏天圍繞著我，為了男爵的份上而感到困擾的蒼蠅，讓我陷入到假象中，以為我是一個藝術家，而實際上我自己卻什麼也不是。"</p>
  <p>"This humour lasted all afternoon, and spoiled my digestion
  for dinner, which was a pity, for there was some delicious wild
  asparagus. But then I thought of you and your work, and the
  future when you will come back with all Rome at your feet, and my
  vexation disappeared and I was content to be nothing and nobody
  except somebody whom you loved and who loved you, and that was to
  be everything and everybody in the world.</p>
  <p>"這種幽默感持續了整個下午，害我晚餐消化不良，
  這真是可惜，因為有一些美味的野生蘆筍。但後來我想到了你和你的工作，以及那個當你帶著全羅馬回來的未來，我的煩惱消失了，我滿足於成為無名無分的人，除了你愛的人和愛你的人，這意味著在世界上成為一切並且是每一個人。"</p>
  <p>"I don't care a rush about the matter now, but what do you
  think I've done? Sold my carriage and horses! Actually! The
  little job-master, with his tight trousers, close-cropped head,
  and chamois-leather waistcoat, has just gone<span class=
  "x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00315" title="247"><a id=
  "Page_247" title="247"></a></span> off after cheating me
  abominably. No matter! What do I want with a grand carriage while
  you are going about as an exile and an outcast? I want nothing
  you have not got, and all I have I wish you to have too,
  including my heart and my soul and everything that is in
  them...."</p>
  <p>"我現在已經不在乎這件事了，但你認為我做了什麼?
  我實際上已經把我的馬車和馬賣掉了！剛剛有個穿得整整齊齊、頭髮剃得乾乾淨淨的小工作主任欺騙我一把就走了。這沒關係！當你被流放、被逐出的時候，我需要一輛豪華馬車做什麼呢？我不要你沒有的東西，我擁有的一切我都希望你也擁有，包括我的心、我的靈魂以及它們所內含的一切......"</p>
  <p>She stopped. This was the place to reveal her great secret.
  But she could not find her way to begin. "To-morrow will do," she
  thought, and so laid down the pen.</p>
  <p>她停了下來。這是揭露她偉大秘密的地方。但她找不到開始的方式。"明天就可以了，"她這樣想，於是放下了筆。</p>
  <h3 id="pgepubid00316">V</h3>
  <p>Early next morning Roma received a visit from the lawyer who
  conducted the business of her landlord. He was a middle-aged man
  in pepper-and-salt tweeds, and his manner was brusque and
  aggressive.</p>
  <p>"隔天一早，羅馬接待了負責處理她房東事務的律師。這是一位穿著灰鹽色花呢套裝的中年男子，他的態度生硬且進取。"</p>
  <p>"Sorry to say, Excellency, that I've had a letter from Count
  Mario at Paris saying that he will require this apartment for his
  own use. He regrets to be compelled to disturb you, but having
  frequently apprised you of his intention to live here
  himself...."</p>
  <p>
  "很遺憾地告訴您，殿下，我收到了來自巴黎的馬里奧伯爵的信，他說他將需要這個公寓供自己使用。他對被迫打擾您感到遺憾，但是他已經多次告知過您他打算自己住在這裡...."</p>
  <p>"When does he want to come?" said Roma.</p>
  <p>"他什麼時候想來？"羅馬說。</p>
  <p>"At Easter."</p>
  <p>"在復活節。"</p>
  <p>"That will do. My aunt is ill, but if she is fit to be
  moved...."</p>
  <p>"那就可以了。我的阿姨生病了，但如果她的狀況允許搬動的話...."</p>
  <p>"Thanks! And may I perhaps present...."</p>
  <p>"謝謝！我可以介紹...."</p>
  <p>A paper in the shape of a bill came from the breast-pocket of
  the pepper-and-salt tweeds. Roma took it, and, without looking at
  it, replied:</p>
  <p>"一張形狀像賬單的紙從胡椒和鹽色花呢胸口口袋中取出。羅馬拿到後，沒有看它，就回答說："</p>
  <p>"You will receive your rent in a day or two."</p>
  <p>"你將在一兩天內收到你的租金。"</p>
  <p>"Thanks again. I trust I may rely on that. And
  meantime...."</p>
  <p>"再次感謝您，我相信我可以依賴這一點。而在此期間……"</p>
  <p>"Well?"</p>
  <p>"好嗎？"</p>
  <p>"As I am personally responsible to the Count for all moneys
  due to him, may I ask your Excellency to promise me that nothing
  shall be removed from this apartment until my arrears of rent
  have been paid?"</p>
  <p>"由於我要對伯爵負責所有的欠款，我可以要求貴族的您承諾在我未支付租金的欠款之前不會從這個公寓帶走任何東西嗎？"</p>
  <p>"I promise that you shall receive what is due from me in two
  days. Is not that enough?"</p>
  <p>"我承諾，在兩天內你將得到應得的東西。這還不夠嗎？"</p>
  <p>The pepper-and-salt tweeds bowed meekly before Roma's flashing
  eyes.</p>
  <p>"花季兒帶點兒鹹味的斜紋材質在羅馬閃爍的眼神前恭敬地低下了頭。"</p>
  <p>"Good-morning, sir."</p>
  <p>"早安，先生。"</p>
  <p>"Good-morning, Excellency."<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno"
  id="pgepubid00317" title="248"><a id="Page_248" title=
  "248"></a></span></p>
  <p>"早安，閣下。"</p>
  <p>The man was hardly out of the house when a woman was shown in.
  It was Madame Sella, the fashionable modiste.</p>
  <p>那個男人剛剛離開這個家，就有一個女人進來了。她就是時尚製衣師瑪丹塞拉。</p>
  <p>"So unlucky, my dear! I'm driven to my wits' end for money.
  The people I deal with in Paris are perfect demons, and are
  threatening all sorts of pains and penalties if I don't send them
  a great sum straight away. Of course if I could get my own money
  in, it wouldn't matter. But the dear ladies of society are so
  slow, and naturally I don't like to go to their gentlemen,
  although really I've waited so long for their debts that
  if...."</p>
  <p>
  "實在太不幸了，我親愛的！我為了錢都要快瘋了。我在巴黎打交道的人都是完美的惡魔，他們威脅我如果不立刻付他們一大筆錢，就會受到各種各樣的痛苦和懲罰。當然，如果我能拿到我自己的錢，那就沒關係。但是，社會名婦們總是那麼慢，我自然不願意去找她們的男人，儘管我真的等待她們的債務已經等待了很長時間......"</p>
  <p>"Can you wait one day longer for mine?"</p>
  <p>"你能不能再等我一天？"</p>
  <p>"Donna Roma! And we've always been such friends, too!"</p>
  <p>"羅馬女士！我們一直都是好朋友，對吧！"</p>
  <p>"You'll excuse me this morning, won't you?" said Roma,
  rising.</p>
  <p>"你今天早上可以原諒我，可以嗎？" 羅馬說著，站了起來。</p>
  <p>"Certainly. I'm busy, too. So good of you to see me. Trust
  I've not been <i>de trop</i>. And if it hadn't been for those
  stupid bills of mine...."</p>
  <p>"當然。我也很忙。非常感謝你能見我。希望我沒有惹人厭。如果不是因為我那些愚蠢的賬單...."</p>
  <p>Roma sat down and wrote a letter to one of the
  <i>strozzini</i> (stranglers), who lend money to ladies on the
  security of their jewels.</p>
  <p>"羅馬坐下來，給一個strozzini（勒索者）寫了一封信，他們以女士的珠寶為擔保借錢給她們。"</p>
  <p>"I wish to sell my jewellery," she wrote, "and if you have any
  desire to buy it, I shall be glad if you can come to see me for
  this purpose at four o'clock to-morrow."</p>
  <p>"我希望出售我的珠寶，"她寫道，"如果你有意購買，我會很高興如果你可以為此目的來找我，時間是明天下午四點。"</p>
  <p>"Roma!" cried a fretful voice.</p>
  <p>"羅馬!" 一個煩躁的聲音喊道。</p>
  <p>She was sitting in the boudoir, and her aunt was calling to
  her from the adjoining room. The old lady, who had just finished
  her toilet, and was redolent of perfume and scented soap, was
  propped up on pillows between the mirror and her Madonna, with
  her cat purring on the cushion at the foot of her bed.</p>
  <p>
  她坐在化妝室裡，她的阿姨在隔壁房間呼叫她。剛完成梳洗的老太太，體香和香皂氣息濃郁，靠在鏡子和她的瑪利亞像之間的枕頭上，她的貓在床腳的枕頭上喵喵地叫。</p>
  <p>"Ah, you do come to me sometimes, don't you?" she said, with
  her embroidered handkerchief at her lips. "What is this I hear
  about the carriage and horses? Sold them! It is incredible. I
  will not believe it unless you tell me so yourself."</p>
  <p>"啊，你有時候會來找我，對吧?"
  她說，將繡花手帕放在唇邊。"我聽說關於車和馬的事情了。賣掉了他們！真是難以置信。除非你親口告訴我，否則我不會相信。"</p>
  <p>"It is quite true, Aunt Betsy. I wanted money for various
  purposes, and among others to pay my debts," said Roma.</p>
  <p>"這是完全正確的，貝特西阿姨。我需要錢來達成各種目的，其中包括償還我的債務，"羅馬說。</p>
  <p>"Goodness! It's true! Give me my salts. There they are—on the
  card-table beside you.... So it's true! It's really true! You've
  done some extraordinary things already, miss, but this ... Mercy
  me! Selling her horses! And she<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno"
  id="pgepubid00318" title="249"><a id="Page_249" title=
  "249"></a></span> isn't ashamed of it!... I suppose you'll sell
  your clothes next, or perhaps your jewels."</p>
  <p>"天哪！真的！給我我的鹽。就在您旁邊的紙牌桌上....
  所以這是真的！真的真的！妳已經做了一些非凡的事情，小姐，但是這....憐憫我！賣她的馬！她對此一點也不感到羞愧！...我猜妳接下來會賣掉你的衣服，或許是珠寶。"</p>
  <p>"That's just what I want to do, Aunt Betsy."</p>
  <p>"那正是我想做的，貝蒂阿姨。"</p>
  <p>"Holy Virgin! What are you saying, girl? Have you lost all
  sense of decency? Sell your jewels! Goodness! Your ancestral
  jewels! You must have grown utterly heartless as well as
  indifferent to propriety, or you wouldn't dream of selling the
  treasures that have come down to you from your own mother's
  breast, as one might say."</p>
  <p>
  "聖母瑪利亞！你在說什麼，女孩？你已經失去了所有的道德感嗎？賣掉你的珠寶！天哪！你的祖傳珠寶！你肯定已經變得完全無情，對禮節也漠不關心，否則你就不會夢想賣掉那些從你母親胸膛，可以說是從她胸膛傳給你的珍寶。"</p>
  <p>"My mother never set eyes on any of them, auntie, and if some
  of them belonged to my grandmother, she must have been a good
  woman because she was the mother of my father, and she would
  rather see me sell them all than live in debt and disgrace."</p>
  <p>
  "我媽媽從未見過他們中的任何一個，阿姨，如果他們中的一些人是我祖母的，她一定是個好人，因為她是我父親的母親，她寧願看到我賣掉所有的東西，也不願讓我生活在債務和恥辱中。"</p>
  <p>"Go on! Go on with your English talk! Or perhaps it's
  American, is it? You want to kill me, that's what it is! You
  will, too, and sooner than you expect, and then you'll be sorry
  and ashamed ... Go away! Why do you come to worry me? Isn't it
  enough ... Natalina! Nat-a-<i>lina!</i>"</p>
  <p>"繼續！繼續你的英語對話！或許是美語嗎？
  你想要殺了我，就是這樣吧！你會的，而且比你預期的還早，然後你會感到遺憾和羞愧…走開！你為何來擾亂我的安寧？難道還不夠嗎…納塔琳娜！
  納塔琳娜！"</p>
  <p>Late that night Roma resumed her letter to David Rossi:</p>
  <p>那天晚些時候，羅馬恢復了她寫給大衛·羅西的信：</p>
  <p style="padding-top:.5em">"<span class=
  "smcap">Dearest</span>,—You are always the last person I speak to
  before I go to bed, and if only my words could sail away over
  Monte Mario in the darkness while I sleep, they would reach you
  on the wings of the morning.</p>
  <p style="padding-top:.5em">
  "親愛的，你總是我睡前最後一位與我說話的人，如果我的話能在我睡覺的時候，穿越黑暗中的蒙特馬里奧山，它們會在黎明的翅膀上抵達你的身旁。"</p>
  <p>"You want to know all that is happening, and here goes again.
  The tyrannies of military rule increase daily, and some of its
  enormities are past belief. Military court sat all day yesterday
  and polished off eighty-five poor victims. Ten of them got ten
  years, twenty got five years, and about fifty got periods of one
  month to twelve.</p>
  <p>
  "你想知道所有正在發生的事情，讓我再說一次。軍事統治的暴行每天都在增加，其中一些令人難以置信的巨大罪行。軍事法庭昨天整天坐著，處理了八十五個可憐的受害者。其中十人被判十年，二十人被判五年，大約五十人被判從一個月到十二的期間。"</p>
  <p>"Lawyer Napoleon F. was here this afternoon to say that he had
  seen Bruno and begun work in his defence. Strangely enough he
  finds a difficulty in a quarter from which it might least be
  expected. Bruno himself is holding off in some unaccountable way
  which gives Napoleon F. an idea that the poor soul is being got
  at. Apparently—you will hardly credit it—he is talking doubtfully
  about you, and asking incredible questions about his wife. Lawyer
  Napoleon actually inquired if there was 'anything in it,' and the
  thing struck me as so silly that I laughed out in his face. It
  was very wrong of me not to be jealous, wasn't it? Being a woman,
  I suppose I ought to have leapt at the idea, according to all the
  natural<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00319"
  title="250"><a id="Page_250" title="250"></a></span> laws of
  love. I didn't, and my heart is still tranquil. But poor Bruno
  was more human, and Napoleon has an idea that something is going
  on inside the prison. He is to go there again to-morrow and to
  let me know.</p>
  <p>
  "律師拿破崙·F今天下午來這裡，說他已經見到了布魯諾，並開始為他的辯護工作。令人奇怪的是，他在最不可能的地方遇到了困難。布魯諾自己以某種難以理解的方式在阻撓，這讓拿破崙·F覺得這個可憐的靈魂正在被人操縱。顯然——你幾乎不會相信——他正在對你表示懷疑，並提出對他的妻子的不可思議的問題。拿破崙律師甚至問我是否'有事'，我覺得這事太荒謬了，我當著他的面笑出來。我不該嫉妒，是不是？作為一個女人，按照所有的愛的自然定律，我應該立刻接受這個想法。但我沒有，我的心仍然平靜。但可憐的布魯諾更為人性，拿破崙認為監獄裡正在發生一些事情。他明天將再次去那裡，並讓我知道。"</p>
  <p>"Such doings at home too! I've been two years in debt to my
  landlord, and at the end of every quarter I've always prayed like
  a modest woman to be allowed to pass by unnoticed. Celebrity has
  fallen on me at last, though, and I'm to go at Easter. Madame de
  Trop, too, has put the screw on, and everybody else is following
  suit. Yesterday, for example, I had the honour of a call from
  every one in the world to whom I owed twopence. Remembering how
  hard it used to be to get a bill out of these people, I find
  their sudden business ardour humorous. They do not deceive me
  nevertheless. I see the die is cast, the fact is known. I have
  fallen from my high estate of general debtor to everybody and
  become merely an honest woman.</p>
  <p>
  "在家裡也是如此的騷亂！我欠我的房東兩年的債，每個季度結束時，我總是像一個謙虛的女人一樣禱告能夠被允許不受人注意地過去。然而，名聲最後還是落在了我身上，我將在復活節離開。德洛普夫人也加大了壓力，其他人也紛紛效仿。比如，昨天我有幸接待了我欠債的全世界的人。記得這些人要賬單有多難，我覺得他們突然的業務熱情有些可笑。然而，他們並沒有欺騙我。我看到骰子已經投下，事實已經知道。我已經從我所有人的債務人的高位跌落，成為了一個誠實的女人。"</p>
  <p>"Do I suffer from these slings of fortune? Not an atom. When I
  was rich, or seemed to be so, I was often the most miserable
  woman in the world, and now I'm happy, happy, happy!</p>
  <p>
  "我是否受到這些命運的折磨呢？一點兒也沒有。當我富有，或至少看似富有時，我常常是這個世界上最痛苦的女人，而現在我卻幸福，幸福，實在是太幸福了！"</p>
  <p>"There is only one thing makes me a little unhappy. Shall I
  tell you what it is? Yes, I <i>will</i> tell you because your
  heart is so true, and like all brave men you are so tender to all
  women. It is a girl friend of mine—a very close and dear friend,
  and she is in trouble. A little while ago she was married to a
  good man, and they love each other dearer than life, and there
  ought to be nothing between them. But there is, and it is a very
  serious thing too, although nobody knows about it but herself and
  me. How shall I tell you? Dearest, you are to think my head is on
  your breast and you cannot see my face while I tell you my poor
  friend's secret. Long ago—it seems long—she was the victim of
  another man. That is really the only word for it, because she did
  not consent. But all the same she feels that she has sinned and
  that nothing on earth can wash away the stain. The worst fact is
  that her husband knows nothing about it. This fills her with
  measureless regret and undying remorse. She feels that she ought
  to have told him, and so her heart is full of tears, and she
  doesn't know what it is her duty to.</p>
  <p>
  "有一件事使我有點不開心。我該告訴你是什麼嗎？好吧，我會告訴你，因為你的心是如此真實，就像所有勇敢的男人，你對所有女性都非常溫柔。這是我的一個女朋友——一個非常親密和親愛的朋友，她遇到了麻煩。不久前，她結婚了，她和她的丈夫非常愛對方，他們之間不該有任何阻隔。可是有，這也是一件非常嚴重的事，雖然除了她和我，別人都不知道。我該怎麼告訴你呢？親愛的，你要想像我的頭靠在你的胸口，你看不見我的臉，我要告訴你我可憐的朋友的秘密。很久以前——感覺很久——她曾是另一個男人的受害者。這真的是唯一的用語，因為她並未同意。但是她仍然覺得自己犯了罪，覺得世上沒有任何事可以洗去那個污點。最糟糕的是，她的丈夫並不知道。這讓她充滿無窮的遺憾和永不消逝的悔恨。她覺得她應該告訴他，所以她的心充滿了淚水，她不知道該做什麼來履行自己的責任。"</p>
  <p style="padding-bottom:.5em">"I thought I would ask you to tell
  me, dearest. You are kind, but you mustn't spare her. I didn't.
  She wanted to draw a veil over her frailty, but I wouldn't let
  her. I think<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00320"
  title="251"><a id="Page_251" title="251"></a></span> she would
  like to confess to her husband, to pour out her heart to him, and
  begin again with a clean page, but she is afraid. Of course she
  hasn't really been faithless, and I could swear on my life she
  loves her husband only. And then her sorrow is so great, and she
  is beginning to look worn with lying awake at nights, though some
  people still think she is beautiful. I dare say you will say,
  serve her right for deceiving a good man. So do I sometimes, but
  I feel strangely inconsistent about my poor friend, and a woman
  has a right to be inconsistent, hasn't she? Tell me what I am to
  say to her, and please don't spare her because she is a friend of
  mine."</p>
  <p style="padding-bottom:.5em">
  "我本來想請你告訴我，親愛的。你很善良，但不能對她手軟。我就沒有。她想掩蓋她的脆弱，但我不讓她這樣做。我想她想對她的丈夫坦白，向他傾訴她的心事，並擁有一個潔淨的新開始，但她害怕。當然她並沒有真正的背叛過，我敢發誓她一生只愛她的丈夫。而且她的痛苦非常大，她因為夜夜不眠開始看起來很憔悴，雖然有些人還是認為她很美。我敢說你會說，她欺騙一個好男人活該。我有時候也這樣認為，但是對於我的可憐朋友，我顯然並不一致，而一個女人有權利表現出不一致，不是嗎？告訴我我該對她說什麼，並且請不要因為她是我的朋友就放過她。"</p>
  <p style="padding-top:.5em">She lifted her pen from the paper.
  "He'll understand," she thought. "He'll remember our other
  letters and read between the lines. Well, so much the better, and
  God be good to me!"</p>
  <p style="padding-top:.5em">她把筆從紙上抬起來。「他會明白的，」她想。
  「他會想起我們以前的信，並從中理解其含義。 那麼，越好了，並且上帝保佑我！」</p>
  <p style="padding-top:.5em;padding-bottom:.5em">"Good-night!
  Good-night! Good-night! I feel like a child—as if the years had
  gone back with me, or rather as if they had only just begun. You
  have awakened my soul and all the world is different. Nearly
  everything that seemed right to me before seems wrong to me now,
  and <i>vice versa</i>. Life? That wasn't life. It was only
  existence. I fancy it must have been some elder sister of mine
  who went through everything. Think of it! When you were twenty
  and I was only ten! I'm glad there isn't as much difference now.
  I'm catching up to you—metaphorically, I mean. If I could only do
  so physically! But what nonsense I'm talking! In spite of my poor
  friend's trouble I can't help talking nonsense to-night."</p>
  <p style="padding-top:.5em;padding-bottom:.5em">
  "晚安！晚安！晚安！我感覺像個小孩——好像時光倒流，或者更準確的說，好像我剛剛開始生活。你喚醒了我的靈魂，整個世界都變了。以前看似對的現在幾乎都讓我覺得不對，反之亦然。生活？那不是生活，只是存在。我想那一定是我年長的姐姐才會經歷的一切。想想看！當你二十歲，我卻只有十歲！我很高興現在我們的差距不再那麼大。我正在迎頭趕上你
  ——
  從比喻的角度來說這樣。如果我只能從物理上做到這點就好了！但是我在說什麼傻話！雖然我那個可憐的朋友有困擾，但是今晚我還是忍不住說些胡言亂語。"</p>
  <h3 id="pgepubid00321">VI</h3>
  <p>Two days later Natalina, coming into Roma's bedroom, threw
  open the shutters and said:</p>
  <p>兩天後，納塔麗娜走進羅馬的臥室，打開了百葉窗，然後說：</p>
  <p>"Letter with a foreign postmark, Excellency—'Sister Angelica,
  care of the Porter.' It was delivered at the Convent, and the
  porter sent it over here."</p>
  <p>「一封有外國郵戳的信，閣下 - 『安吉利卡修女，看門人的護理』。它在修道院被寄出，看門人把它送到這裡。」</p>
  <p>"Give it to me," said Roma eagerly. "It's quite right. I know
  whom it is for, and if any more letters come for the same person
  bring them to me immediately."</p>
  <p>"把它給我，"Roma急切地說。"這很對。我知道是給誰的，如果有更多的信給同一個人，立即把它們帶給我。"</p>
  <p>Almost before the maid had left the room Roma had torn the
  letter open. It was dated from a street in Soho.</p>
  <p>幾乎在女僕離開房間的剎那間，羅馬就撕開了信封。 信是在蘇豪區的一條街上寫的。</p>
  <p style="padding-top:.5em">"<span class="smcap">My dear
  Wife</span>,—As you see, I have reached London, and now I am
  thinking of you always, wondering what sufferings<span class=
  "x-ebookmaker-pageno" title="252"><a id="Page_252" title=
  "252"></a></span> are being inflicted upon you for my sake and
  how you meet and bear them. To think of you there, in the midst
  of our enemies, is a spur and an inspiration. Only wait! If my
  absence is cruel to you it is still more hard to me. I will see
  your lovely eyes again before long, and there will be an end of
  all our sadness. Meantime continue to love me, and that will work
  miracles. It will make all the slings and slurs of life seem to
  be a long way off and of no account. Only those who love can know
  this law of the human heart, but how true it is and how
  beautiful!</p>
  <p style="padding-top:.5em">
  "親愛的妻子，如你所見，我已經到達倫敦，現在我一直在想你，擔心你為了我而遭受的痛苦，以及你是如何遇見並承受它們的。想到你在我們的敵人中間，這是一種刺激和靈感。只是等待！如果我的缺席對你來說苦不堪言，對我來說則更為艱難。我將在不久的將來再次見到你美麗的眼睛，所有的悲傷將結束。與此同時，請繼續愛我，那會創造奇蹟。它會讓生活中所有的侮辱和恥笑看起來遙不可及，毫不重要。只有那些愛的人才能知道這個人心的法則，但它多麼真實，多麼美麗！"</p>
  <p>"We reached London in the early morning, when the grey old
  city was beginning to stir after its sleepless rest. I had
  telegraphed the time of my arrival to the committee of our
  association, and early as it was some hundreds of our people were
  at Charing Cross to meet me. They must have been surprised to see
  a man step out of the train in the disguise of driver of a
  wine-cart on the Campagna, but perhaps that helped them to
  understand the position better, and they formed into procession
  and marched to Trafalgar Square as if they had forgotten they
  were in a foreign country.</p>
  <p>
  "我們在清晨到達倫敦，當這個古老的灰色城市開始在無眠的休息後蘇醒。我已經將我的抵達時間電報給我們協會的委員會，儘管時間尚早，我們的一些成員還是在查令十字街等候我。他們一定對看到一個男子以葡萄酒車的司機偽裝從火車上走下來感到驚訝，但也許這有助於他們更好地瞭解情況，他們排成隊伍，行進至特拉法加廣場，似乎忘記了他們身處異國。"</p>
  <p>"To me it was a strange and moving spectacle. The mist like a
  shroud over the great city, some stars of leaden hue paling out
  overhead, the day dawning over the vast square, the wide silence
  with the far-off hum of awakening life, the English workmen
  stopping to look at us as they went by to their work, and our
  company of dark-bearded men, emigrants and exiles, sending their
  hearts out in sympathy to their brothers in the south. As I spoke
  from the base of the Gordon statue and turned towards St.
  Martin's Church, I could fancy I saw your white-haired father on
  the steps with his little daughter in his arms.</p>
  <p>
  "對我來說，這是一個奇特而動人的景象。大霧如同屍衣裹著大城，一些鈍色的星星在頭頂上漸漸消失，黎明破曉於廣袤的廣場，遠處響起生活喚醒的微嘩，英國工人們在去工作的路上停下來看著我們，而我們這群黑鬍子的男人，移民和流亡者，把他們的心送給南方的兄弟們。當我從戈登雕像的基座發言，轉向聖馬丁教堂時，我似乎能看到你那頭白如雪的父親在臺階上，懷裡抱著他的小女兒。"</p>
  <p>"I will write again in a day or two, telling you what we are
  doing. Meantime I enclose a Proclamation to the People, which I
  wish you to get printed and posted up. Take it to old Albert
  Pelegrino in the Stamperia by the Trevi. Tell him to mention the
  cost and the money shall follow. Call at the Piazza Navona and
  see what is happening to Elena. Poor girl! Poor Bruno! And my
  poor dear little darling!</p>
  <p>
  "我將在一兩天後再寫信告訴你我們在做什麼。同時，我附帶了一份向人民的呼籲，我希望你能找人印刷並張貼出去。把它拿給特雷維噴泉旁的史坦普利亞的老阿爾伯特·佩萊格里諾看看。告訴他提供印刷費用，錢將會隨後到來。到納沃納廣場去看看埃琳娜現在怎麼樣了。可憐的女孩！可憐的布魯諾！還有我可憐的小寶貝!"</p>
  <p>"Take care of yourself, my dear one. I am always thinking of
  you. It is a fearful thing to have taken up the burden of one who
  is branded as an outcast and an outlaw. I cannot help but
  reproach myself. There was a time when I saw my duty to you in
  another way, but love came like a hurricane<span class=
  "x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00322" title="253"><a id=
  "Page_253" title="253"></a></span> out of the skies and swept all
  sense of duty away. My wife! my Roma! You have hazarded
  everything for me, and some day I will give up everything for
  you.</p>
  <p>
  "照顧好你自己，我的摯愛。我始終想著你。它是一種可怕的事情，承擔了一個被標記為棄兒和亡命之徒的負擔。我不禁要責怪自己。曾經有一段時間，我以另一種方式看待對你的責任，但愛情像颶風一樣從天空中來，掃除了所有的責任感。我的妻子！我的羅馬！你為我冒著一切風險，有一天我會為你放棄一切。"</p>
  <p style=
  "text-align:right; margin-top:-1em; padding-bottom:.5em;">D.
  R."</p>
  <p style=
  "text-align:right; margin-top:-1em; padding-bottom:.5em;">"D.
  R."</p>
  <h3 id="pgepubid00323">VII</h3>
  <p>"<span class="smcap">Dearest</span>,—Your letter to Sister
  Angelica arrived safely, and worked more miracles in her
  cloistered heart than ever happened to the 'Blessed Bambino.'
  Before it came I was always thinking, 'Where is he now? Is he
  having his breakfast? Or is it dinner, according to the
  difference of time and longitude?' All I knew was that you had
  travelled north, and though the sun doesn't ordinarily set in
  that direction, the sky over Monte Mario used to glow for my
  special pleasure like the gates of the New Jerusalem.</p>
  <p>"親愛的，你給修女安吉莉卡的信安全抵達了，並在她那被封閉的心中產生了更多的奇蹟，超越了「神聖的嬰孩」所能產生的。
  在接到你的信之前，我總是在想，'他現在在哪裡？他正在吃早餐嗎？或者根據時差和經度的不同，現在是晚餐時間嗎？'
  我唯一知道的是你已經向北方前進，儘管太陽並不常常在那個方向落山，但蒙特馬里奧的天空為了我個人的喜悅而變得閃亮，就像新耶路撒冷的門閂一樣。"</p>
  <p>"Your letters are so precious that I will ask you not to fill
  them with useless things. Don't tell me to love you. The idea!
  Didn't I say I should think of you always? I do! I think of you
  when I go to bed at night, and that is like opening a jewel-case
  in the moonlight. I think of you when I am asleep, and that is
  like an invisible bridge which unites us in our dreams; and I
  think of you when I wake in the morning, and that is like a cage
  of song-birds that sing in my breast the whole day long.</p>
  <p>
  "你的信件非常珍貴，我希望你不要用無用的事情填充它們。不要告訴我愛你。這個想法！難道我沒說過我會永遠想念你嗎？我做到了！每天晚上上床睡覺時，我都會想到你，這就像在月光下開啟一個珠寶盒。我在睡覺時想到你，就像一座看不見的橋，使我們在夢中相聯；我在早上醒來時想到你，就像一個歌鳥的籠子，讓我一整天都在胸口唱歌。"</p>
  <p>"But you are dying to hear what is really happening in Rome,
  so your own special envoy must send off her budget as a set-off
  against those official telegrams. 'Not a day with out a line,' so
  my letter will look like words shaken out of a literary
  pepper-box. Let me bring my despatches up to date.</p>
  <p>
  "但你渴望聽到在羅馬真正發生的事情，所以你的特使必須把她的預算作為官方電報的對沖送出。'沒有一天不畫一條線，'所以我的信看起來就像從文學胡椒盒裡搖出來的詞語。讓我把我的派件更新到最新的日期。"</p>
  <p>"Military rule severer than ever, and poverty and misery on
  all sides. Families of reserve soldiers starving, and meetings of
  chief citizens to succour them. Donation from the King and from
  the 'Black' Charity Circle of St. Peter. Even the clergy are
  sending francs, so none can question their sincerity. Bureau of
  Labour besieged by men out of work, and offices occupied by
  Carabineers. People eating maize in polenta and granturco with
  the certainty of sickness to follow. Red Cross Society organised
  as in time of war, and many sick and wounded hidden in
  houses.</p>
  <p>
  "比以往任何時候都嚴重的軍事統治，以及四處的貧困和苦難。後備兵的家庭挨餓，主要公民的會議要幫助他們。來自國王和聖彼得的'黑'慈善圈的捐款。即使是神職人員也在發送法郎，所以沒有人能質疑他們的誠意。勞動局被失業的人包圍，辦公室被卡賓槍佔據。人們在吃玉米做成的波倫塔和格蘭圖科，可以肯定的是會跟著疾病而來。紅十字會像戰時那樣組織起來，很多病人和傷者藏在房子裡。"</p>
  <p>"And now for more personal matters. The proclamation is in
  hand, and paid for, and will be posted first thing in
  the<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00324" title=
  "254"><a id="Page_254" title="254"></a></span> morning. From the
  printer's I went on to the Piazza Navona and found a wilderness
  of woe. Elena has gone away, leaving an ambiguous letter behind
  her, saying that she wished her Madonna to be given to me, as she
  would have no need of it in the place she was going to. This led
  the old people to believe that for the loss of her son and
  husband she had become demented and had destroyed herself. I
  pretended to think differently, and warned them to say nothing of
  their daughter's disappearance, thinking that Bruno might hear of
  it, and find food for still further suspicions.</p>
  <p>
  "現在談談更個人的事情。公告已經拿到手，並已經付錢，明天一早就會被張貼出去。從印刷商那裡我繼續前往納沃納廣場，結果發現一片混亂和痛苦。艾琳娜走了，留下一封含混的信，裡面說她希望將她的瑪利亞像送給我，因為她去的地方不再需要它。這讓老人們認為，由於失去了她的兒子和丈夫，她已經變得瘋狂，並結束了自己的生命。我假裝不這麼認為，並警告他們不要說起女兒的失蹤，想著布魯諾可能會聽說，並由此產生更多的懷疑。"</p>
  <p>"Lawyer Napoleon F. has seen the poor soul again, and been
  here this evening to tell me the result. It will seem to you
  incredible. Bruno will do nothing to help in his own defence.
  Talks of 'treachery' and the 'King's pardon.' Napoleon F. thinks
  the Camorra is at work with him, and tells how criminals in the
  prisons of Italy have a league of crime, with captains,
  corporals, and cadets. My own reading of the mystery is
  different. I think the Camorra in this case is the Council, and
  the only design is to entrap by treachery one of the 'greater
  delinquents not in custody.' I want to find out where Charles
  Minghelli is at present. Nobody seems to know.</p>
  <p>
  "律師拿破崙·F再次見到了那個可憐的靈魂，並在今天晚上來告訴我結果。這對你來說可能難以置信。布魯諾拒絕為自己的辯護做任何事情。他談論著'背叛'和'國王的赦免'。拿破崙·F認為這是Camorra在與他合作，並說明義大利監獄中的罪犯有一個犯罪聯盟，有隊長，下士和學員。我對這個謎的理解有所不同。我認為在這種情況下，Camorra是議會，唯一的設計是要透過背叛來誘捕一個'未被拘留的大犯罪者'。我想找出查爾斯·明赫利目前在哪裡。沒有人似乎知道。"</p>
  <p>"As for me, what do you suppose is my last performance? I've
  sold my jewels! Yesterday I sent for one of the <i>strozzini</i>,
  and the old Shylock came this evening and cheated me
  unmercifully. No matter! What do I want with jewellery, or a fine
  house, and servants to follow me about as if I were a Cardinal?
  If <i>you</i> can do without them so can I. But you need not say
  you are anxious about what is happening to me. I'm as happy as
  the day is long. I am happy because I love you, and that is
  everything.</p>
  <p>
  "對我來說，你認為我的最後一次表演是什麼？我已經賣掉了我的珠寶！昨天，我叫來了一個典當商，老吉貝貝今晚來了，他狠狠地欺騙了我。沒關係！我需要珠寶，豪華的房子，手下的僕人像樞機主教那樣跟著我嗎？如果你能無這些，我也可以。你不用說你擔心我這裡發生的事。我快樂得如同白晝。我之所以快樂，是因為我愛你，這就是一切。"</p>
  <p>"Only one thing troubles me—the grief of the poor girl I told
  you of. She follows me about, and is here all the time, so that I
  feel as if I were possessed by her secret. In fact, I'm afraid
  I'll blab it out to somebody. I think you would be sorry to see
  her. She tries to persuade herself that because her soul did not
  consent she was really not to blame. That is the thing that women
  are always saying, isn't it? They draw this distinction when it
  is too late, and use it as a quibble to gloss over their fault.
  Oh, I gave it her! I told her she should have thought of that in
  time, and died rather than yield. It was all very fine to talk of
  a minute of weakness—mere weakness of bodily will, not of virtue,
  but the<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00325"
  title="255"><a id="Page_255" title="255"></a></span> world splits
  no straws of that sort. If a woman has fallen she has fallen, and
  there is no question of body or soul.</p>
  <p>
  "只有一件事煩擾著我——就是我告訴你的那個可憐女孩的悲傷。她一直跟著我，時刻都在這裡，使我覺得好像被她的秘密附身了。事實上，我害怕我會把它對別人說出來。我想你看到她會很難過。她試圖說服自己，因為她的靈魂並未同意，所以她真的無可責怪。這是女人總是會說的事情，對吧？她們在事情來不及時提出這種區別，並用它作為遁辭以掩飾自己的過錯。哦，我把這一切都告訴她了！我告訴她她應該早點想到這一點，寧願死也不能屈服。談論短暫的弱點——僅僅是身體意志的弱點，而不是美德的弱點，但世界並不分這種細小半斤八兩的事情。如果一個女人跌倒了，那就是跌倒了，並沒有身體或靈魂的問題。"</p>
  <p>"Oh dear, how she cried! When I caught sight of her red eyes,
  I felt she ought to get herself forgiven. And after all I'm not
  so sure that she should tell her husband, seeing that it would so
  shock and hurt him. She thinks that after one has done wrong the
  best thing to do next is to say nothing about it. There <i>is</i>
  something in that, isn't there?</p>
  <p>
  "哎呀，她怎麼哭的！當我看到她紅腫的眼睛時，我覺得她應該找到被原諒的辦法。畢竟，我並不確定她是否應該告訴她的丈夫，因為這會讓他非常震驚和傷心。她認為在做錯事之後，下一步最好的做法是不要說出來。這其中有道理，對吧？"</p>
  <p>"One thing I must say for the poor girl—she has been a
  different woman since this happened. It has converted her. That's
  a shocking thing to say, but it's true. I remember that when I
  was a girl in the convent, and didn't go to mass because I hadn't
  been baptized and it was agreed with the Baron that I shouldn't
  be, I used to read in the Lives of the Saints that the darkest
  moments of 'the drunkenness of sin' were the instants of
  salvation. Who knows? Perhaps the very fact by which the world
  usually stamps a woman as bad is in this case the fact of her
  conversion. As for my friend, she used to be the vainest young
  thing in Rome, and now she cares nothing for the world and its
  vanities.</p>
  <p>
  "我必須為這個可憐的女孩說一句──自從這件事發生後，她已經變成了一個不同的女人。這件事改變了她。這是個令人震驚的事實，但這是真的。我記得當我還是修道院的女孩，因為我沒有受洗，所以沒有去參加彌撒，這是我和男爵達成的協議，我常在聖人生平中讀到，'罪之醉'的最黑暗時刻就是拯救的瞬間。誰知道呢？也許正是世界通常用來貶低一個女人的事實，在這裡就是她得救的事實。至於我的朋友，她曾經是羅馬最虛榮的年輕女子，但現在她對世界和其虛榮之事一點也不在乎。"</p>
  <p>"Two days hence my letter will fall into your hands—why can't
  I do so too? Love me always. That will lift me up to your own
  level, and prove that when you fell in love with me love wasn't
  quite blind. I'm not so old and ugly as I was yesterday, and at
  all events nobody could love you more. Good-night! I open my
  window to say my last good-night to the stars over Monte Mario,
  for that's where England is! How bright they are to-night! How
  beautiful!</p>
  <p>
  "兩天後，我的信將落入你的手中——為何我不能這樣做呢？永遠愛我。這將把我提升到你的層次，並證明當你與我相愛時，愛並不全然盲目。我並不比昨天老且醜陋，並且無論如何，沒有人能比我更愛你。晚安！我開啟窗戶向蒙特馬里奧上的星星說最後的晚安，因為那裡是英國！今晚它們多麼明亮！多麼美麗！"</p>
  <p style="text-align:right; margin-top:-1em;"><span class=
  "smcap">Roma</span>."</p>
  <p style="text-align:right; margin-top:-1em;">"羅馬。"</p>
  <h3 id="pgepubid00326">VIII</h3>
  <p>Next morning the Countess was very ill, and Roma went to her
  immediately.</p>
  <p>次日，伯爵夫人病得很厲害，羅馬立刻去她那裡。</p>
  <p>"I must have a doctor," she said. "It's perfectly heartless to
  keep me without one all this time."</p>
  <p>"我必須要有一位醫生，"她說。"這段時間讓我沒有醫生，簡直是無情到了極點。"</p>
  <p>"Aunt Betsy," said Roma, "you know quite well that but for
  your own express prohibition you would have had a doctor all
  along."</p>
  <p>"貝琪阿姨," 羅馬說, "你很清楚，如果不是你自己堅決禁止，醫生早就會一直在這裡了。"</p>
  <p>"For mercy's sake, don't nag, but send for a doctor
  immediately. Let it be Dr. Fedi. Everybody has Dr. Fedi now."</p>
  <p>"為了慈悲的緣故，請不要嘮叨，立刻派人去找醫生。讓那個醫生是菲迪醫生。現在人人都找菲迪醫生。"</p>
  <p>Fedi was the Pope's physician, and therefore the most costly
  and fashionable doctor in Rome.<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno"
  id="pgepubid00327" title="256"><a id="Page_256" title=
  "256"></a></span></p>
  <p>"費迪是教皇的醫生，因此他是羅馬最昂貴且最時尚的醫生。"</p>
  <p>Dr. Fedi came with an assistant who carried a little case of
  instruments. He examined the Countess, her breast, her side, and
  the glands under her arms, shot out a solemn under-lip, put two
  fingers inside his collar, twisted his head from side to side,
  and announced that the patient must have a nurse immediately.</p>
  <p>
  費迪醫生帶著一位助手來了，助手帶著一個裝有器械的小箱子。他檢查了伯爵夫人的胸部、側面和腋下的淋巴結，嚴肅地伸出下唇，將兩根手指放在領口裡，從一邊轉向另一邊，並宣佈病人必須立即有一位護士。</p>
  <p>"Do you hear that, Roma? Doctor says that I must have a nurse.
  Of course I must have a nurse. I'll have one of the English
  nursing Sisters. Everybody has them now. They're foreigners, and
  if they talk they can't do much mischief."</p>
  <p>
  "你聽到了嗎，羅馬？醫生說我必須要有一個護士。當然我必須要有一個護士。我將會要一個英國的護理姐妹。現在每個人都有她們。她們是外國人，即使她們談話也不能搞出太大的問題。"</p>
  <p>The Sister was sent for. She was a mild and gentle creature,
  in blue and white, but she talked perpetually of her Mother
  Superior, who had been bedridden for fifteen years, yet smiled
  sweetly all day long. That exasperated the Countess and fretted
  her. When the doctor came again the patient was worse.</p>
  <p>
  妹妹被召去。她是一個穿著藍色和白色，溫柔的生物，但她老是在說她的修女院長，誰已經臥床不起十五年，但整天微笑。那惹怒了伯爵夫人，讓她煩惱。當醫生再次來的時候，病人的情況變的更糟。</p>
  <p>"Your aunt must have dainties to tempt her appetite and so
  keep up her strength."</p>
  <p>"你的阿姨必須要有美味佳餚來引起她的食慾，這樣才能保持她的體力。"</p>
  <p>"Do you hear, Roma?"</p>
  <p>"你聽到了嗎，羅馬？"</p>
  <p>"You shall have everything you wish for, auntie."</p>
  <p>"阿姨，您想要的我都會滿足您。"</p>
  <p>"Well, I wish for strawberries. Everybody eats them who is ill
  at this season."</p>
  <p>"嗯，我想要吃草莓。在這個季節，所有的病人都會吃草莓。"</p>
  <p>The strawberries were bought, but the Countess scarcely
  touched them, and they were finally consumed in the kitchen.</p>
  <p>草莓已經買回來了，但伯爵夫人幾乎不曾碰它們，最後，這些草莓終於在廚房裡被吃掉了。</p>
  <p>When the doctor came a third time the patient was much
  emaciated and her skin had become sallow and earthy.</p>
  <p>當醫生第三次來的時候，病人已經消瘦很多，她的皮膚變得黃澄澄的，像土一樣。</p>
  <p>"It would not be right to conceal from you the gravity of your
  condition, Countess," he said. "In such a case we always think it
  best to tell a patient to make her peace with God."</p>
  <p>"隱瞞您的病情嚴重性是不對的，伯爵夫人，"他說。"在這種情況下，我們總覺得最好告訴病人與上帝和解。"</p>
  <p>"Oh, don't say that, doctor," whimpered the poor withered
  creature on the bed.</p>
  <p>"哦，醫生，不要這麼說，"床上那可憐的枯萎生物哀嚎道。</p>
  <p>"But while there's life there's hope, you know; and meantime
  I'll send you an opiate to relieve the pain."</p>
  <p>"但是你知道，只要有生命，就有希望；同時，我將會給你一種鎮痛劑以緩解疼痛。"</p>
  <p>When the doctor was gone, the Countess sent for Roma.</p>
  <p>當醫生走後，伯爵夫人叫羅馬來。</p>
  <p>"That Fedi is a fool," she said. "I don't know what people see
  in him. I should like to try the Bambino of Ara Cœli. The
  Cardinal Vicar had it, and why shouldn't I? They say it has
  worked miracles. It may be dear, but if I die you will always
  reproach yourself. If you are short of money you can sign a bill
  at six months, and before that the<span class=
  "x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00328" title="257"><a id=
  "Page_257" title="257"></a></span> poor maniac woman will be gone
  and you'll be the wife of the Baron."</p>
  <p>"那個費迪真是個傻瓜，"
  她說。"我不知道人們在他身上看到了什麼。我倒想試試阿拉科埃利的嬰兒。樞機主教都擁有過，我為什麼就不能呢？據說那具有奇跡的力量。就算價錢高昂，但如果我因此過世，你將永遠自責不已。如果你缺錢，可以在六個月後繳付一筆帳單，在此之前，這個可憐的瘋女人就會消失無蹤，而你將成為男爵的妻子。"</p>
  <p>"If you really think the Bambino will...."</p>
  <p>"如果你真的認為Bambino會...."</p>
  <p>"It will! I know it will."</p>
  <p>"它會的！我知道它會的。"</p>
  <p>"Very well, I will send for it."</p>
  <p>"好的，我會去叫人帶來。"</p>
  <p>Roma sent a letter to the Superior of the Franciscans at the
  Friary of Ara Cœli asking that the little figure of the infant
  Christ, which is said to restore the sick, should be sent to her
  aunt, who was near to death.</p>
  <p>"羅馬寫信給阿拉科埃利修道院的方濟各會長，要求將小耶穌的雕像，傳說該雕像能使病人康復，送給她即將去世的阿姨。"</p>
  <p>At the same time she wrote to an auctioneer in the Via due
  Macelli, requesting him to call upon her. The man came
  immediately. He had little beady eyes, which ranged round the
  dining-room and seemed to see everything except Roma herself.</p>
  <p>同時，她寫信給Via due
  Macelli的一個拍賣人，要求他來拜訪她。那個人立即來了。他有一雙像珠子般的小眼睛，四處環顧著餐廳，似乎除了羅馬自己之外，他看到了所有的東西。</p>
  <p>"I wish to sell up my furniture," said Roma.</p>
  <p>"我想把我的傢俱賣掉," 羅馬說。</p>
  <p>"All of it?"</p>
  <p>"全部？"</p>
  <p>"Except what is in my aunt's room and the room of her nurse,
  and such things in the kitchen, the servants' apartments, and my
  own bedroom as are absolutely necessary for present
  purposes."</p>
  <p>"除了我阿姨的房間和護士的房間裡的東西，以及廚房、僕人的公寓和我的臥室裡對目前目的絕對必要的東西。"</p>
  <p>"Quite right. When?"</p>
  <p>"沒錯，什麼時候?"</p>
  <p>"Within a week if possible."</p>
  <p>"如果可能的話，請在一週內。"</p>
  <p>The Bambino came in a carriage with two horses, and the people
  in the street went down on their knees as it passed. One of the
  friars in priest's surplice carried it in a box with the lid
  open, and two friars in brown habits walked before it with lifted
  candles. But as the painted image in its scarlet clothes and
  jewels entered the Countess's bedroom with its grim and ghostly
  procession, and was borne like a baby mummy to the foot of her
  bed, it terrified her, and she screamed.</p>
  <p>
  "Bambino乘坐著雙馬車來到，街上的人們在它經過時都跪了下來。其中一名身著司鐸袍的僧侶用開著蓋的盒子托著它，兩名穿著棕色僧服的僧侶高舉著蠟燭在前頭走。但當這個鮮紅衣服和珠寶畫像與其陰森而幽靈的隊伍進入了伯爵夫人的臥室，並被像嬰兒木乃伊一樣扛到她床邊時，伯爵夫人害怕得尖叫起來。"</p>
  <p>"Take it away!" she shrieked. "Do you want to frighten me out
  of my life? Take it away!"</p>
  <p>"把它拿走！"她尖叫道。"你想把我嚇死嗎？把它拿走！"</p>
  <p>The grim and ghostly procession went out. Its visit had lasted
  thirty seconds and cost a hundred francs.</p>
  <p>那鬼魂般、沉痛的隊伍出去了。他們的訪問持續了三十秒，花費了一百法郎。</p>
  <p>When the doctor came again the outline of the Countess's
  writhing form had shrunk to the lines of a skeleton under the
  ruffled counterpane.</p>
  <p>當醫生再次來到時，伯爵夫人在褶皺的床鋪下扭動的身形已經縮小到骷髏的輪廓。</p>
  <p>"It's not the Bambino you want—it's the priest," he said, and
  then the poor mortal who was still afraid of dying began to
  whimper.</p>
  <p>"你需要的不是嬰兒，而是神父，"他說，然後那個仍然害怕死亡的可憐人開始啜泣。</p>
  <p>"And, Sister," said the doctor, "as the Countess suffers so
  much pain, you may increase the opiate from a
  dessert-spoonful<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id=
  "pgepubid00329" title="258"><a id="Page_258" title=
  "258"></a></span> to a tablespoonful, and give it twice as
  frequently."</p>
  <p>
  "而且，修女，"醫生說，"由於伯爵夫人承受了如此多的痛苦，您可以將鴉片劑量從一湯匙增加到兩湯匙，並且使用它的頻率加倍。"</p>
  <p>That evening the Sister went home for a few hours' leave, and
  Roma took her place by the sick-bed. The patient was more selfish
  and exacting than ever, but Roma had begun to feel a softening
  towards the poor tortured being, and was trying her best to do
  her duty.</p>
  <p>
  那天晚上，修女回家休假了幾個小時，羅馬在病床邊替她看著病人。病人比以往更自私、更苛求，但羅馬開始對這個受折磨的可憐人有所軟化，並正在盡自己最大的努力來做好自己的職責。</p>
  <p>It was dusk, and the Countess, who had just taken her opiate
  in the increased doses, was out of pain, and wished to make her
  toilet. Roma brought up the night-table and the mirror, the
  rouge-pot, the rabbit's foot, the puff, the pencil, and the other
  appurtenances of her aunt's toilet-box. And when the fragile
  thing, so soon to be swallowed up by the earth in its great
  earthquake, had been propped by pillows, she began to paint her
  wrinkled face as if going to dance a minuet with death. First the
  black rings about the languid eyes were whitened, then the
  earthen cheeks were rouged, and finally the livid lips and
  nostrils were pencilled with the rosy hues of health and
  youth.</p>
  <p>
  黃昏來臨，伯爵夫人剛服用了新增劑量的鴉片，稍微緩解了疼痛，並希望打理一下自己的容貌。羅馬把梳妝臺和鏡子，還有她阿姨的化妝盒——包括胭脂盒，兔腳，粉撲，畫眉筆，等等化妝用具，搬了上來。當這個即將被大地的強大地震吞噬的脆弱生命被枕頭簇擁著，她開始為自己的皺紋滿面塗抹妝容，就像即將與死神跳一場米諾蕾舞蹈。首先，她將眼圈四周的黑圈漂白，接著將臉頰塗上胭脂，最後在蒼白的嘴唇與鼻孔上點綴出健康和年輕的粉紅色。</p>
  <p>Roma had turned on the electric light, but the glare oppressed
  the patient, and she switched it off again. The night had now
  closed in, and the only light in the room came from the little
  red oil-lamp which burned before the shrine.</p>
  <p>羅馬打開了電燈，但強烈的光線令病人感到壓迫，於是她又關掉了。夜晚已經來臨，房間裡唯一的光來自燃燒在神龕前的小紅油燈。</p>
  <p>The drug began to operate, and its first effect was to loosen
  the old lady's tongue. She began to talk of priests in a tone of
  contempt and braggadocio.</p>
  <p>藥物開始起作用，它的第一個效果是讓老夫人的口舌放鬆。她開始以蔑視和吹牛的口吻談論神父。</p>
  <p>"I hate priests," she said, "and I can't bear to have them
  about me. Why so? Because they are always about the dead. Their
  black cassocks make me think of funerals. The sight of a
  graveyard makes me faint. Besides, priests and confessions go
  together, and why should a woman confess if she can avoid it?
  When people confess they have to give up the thing they confess
  to, or they can't get absolution. Fedi's a fool. Give it up
  indeed! I might as well talk of giving up the bed that's under
  me."</p>
  <p>
  "我討厭神甫，"她說，"我不能忍受他們在我身邊。為什麼呢？因為他們永遠都在關注死亡。他們的黑色長袍讓我想到葬禮。看到墓地會讓我暈倒。此外，神甫和告解是相伴而來的，為什麼一個女人需要走到那個地步呢？當人們告解時，他們必須放棄他們承認的事情，否則就得不到赦免。Fedi真是個傻瓜。放棄？的確！就像我說放棄躺在我下面的床一樣。"</p>
  <p>Roma sat on a stool by the bedside, listening intently, yet
  feeling she had no right to listen. The drug was rapidly
  intoxicating the Countess, who went on to talk as if some one
  else had been in the room.</p>
  <p>
  "羅馬坐在床邊的凳子上，專心地聽著，卻覺得自己沒有權利去聆聽。藥物正在迅速地使伯爵夫人醉酒，她繼續說話，就像房間裡還有另一個人。"</p>
  <p>"A priest would be sure to ask questions about that girl. I
  would have to tell him why the Baron put me here to look after
  her, and then he would prate about the Sacraments and want me to
  give up everything."<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id=
  "pgepubid00330" title="259"><a id="Page_259" title=
  "259"></a></span></p>
  <p>
  "一位神父肯定會問關於那女孩的問題。我將不得不告訴他為何男爵讓我在這裡照顧她，然後他會絮絮叨叨地談論聖事，並希望我放棄一切。"</p>
  <p>The Countess laughed a hard, evil laugh, and Roma felt an icy
  shudder pass over her.</p>
  <p>"公爵夫人發出了一聲刻骨的邪惡笑聲，羅馬感到一股寒冷的顫抖掠過她。"</p>
  <p>"'I'm tied,' said the Baron. 'But you must see that she waits
  for me. Everything depends upon you, and if all comes out
  well....'"</p>
  <p>"'我被束縛了，'男爵說。'但你必須看到她在等我。 一切都取決於你，如果一切都進行得很好....'"</p>
  <p>The old woman's tongue was thickening, and her eyes in the
  dull red light were glazed and stupid.</p>
  <p>老女人的舌頭變得厚重，而在昏暗的紅光中，她的眼睛呈現出呆滯和無知的樣子。</p>
  <p>Roma sat motionless and silent, watching with her own dilated
  eyes the grinning sinner, as she poured out the story of the plot
  for her capture and corruption. At that moment she hated her
  aunt, the unclean, malignant, unpitying thing who had poisoned
  her heart against her father and tried to break down every
  spiritual impulse of her soul.</p>
  <p>
  羅馬靜靜地坐著，一動不動，她那眼珠瞪大，看著那個正在獰笑的罪人，她在娓娓道來她被捕捉和腐化的陰謀的故事。在那一刻，她憎恨她的阿姨，那個污穢的，惡意的，無情的人，她毒害了她對父親的心，試圖打破她靈魂中的每一個精神衝動。</p>
  <p>The diabolical horse-laughter came again, and then the devil
  who had loosened the tongue of the dying woman in the
  intoxication of the drug made her reveal the worst secret of her
  tortured conscience.</p>
  <p>
  那惡魔般的馬背笑聲再度回蕩，接著，那個在藥物醺醉中解除了垂死女子舌頭束縛的惡魔，使她揭露了她受折磨的良心最可怕的秘密。</p>
  <p>"Why did I let him torment me? Because he knew something. It
  was about the child. Didn't you know I had a child? It was born
  when my husband was away. He was coming home, and I was in
  terror."</p>
  <p>
  "為什麼我讓他折磨我?因為他知道一些事情。這是關於那個孩子的。你知道我有一個孩子嗎？那是在我丈夫出差時出生的。他將要回家，我感到恐慌。"</p>
  <p>The red light was on the emaciated face. Roma was sitting in
  the shadow with a roaring in her ears.</p>
  <p>`紅光照在消瘦的臉上。羅馬坐在陰影中，耳朵裡傳來嘈雜的聲音。`</p>
  <p>"It died, and I went to confession.... I thought nobody
  knew.... But the Baron knows everything.... After that I did
  whatever he told me."</p>
  <p>"它去世了，我去告解.....我以為沒有人知道.....但男爵知道一切.....之後，我就按照他的指示去做了一切。"</p>
  <p>The thick voice stopped. Only the ticking of a little clock
  was audible. The Countess had dozed off. All her vanity of
  vanities, her intrigues, her life-long frenzies, her sins and
  sufferings were wrapt in the innocence of sleep.</p>
  <p>那稠密的聲音止息了。只能聽到小鐘的滴答聲。
  伯爵夫人已經打瞌睡了。她所有的虛浮、陰謀、一生的狂熱、她的罪過和痛苦都被包裹在睡眠的無邪之中。</p>
  <p>Roma looked down at the poor, wrinkled, rouged face, now
  streaked with sweat and with black lines from the pencilled
  eyebrows, and noiselessly rose to go. She was feeling a sense of
  guilt in herself that stirred her to the depths of abasement.</p>
  <p>
  羅馬低頭看著那張可憐的、皺紋滿佈且搽了脂粉的臉龐，那上面現在充滿了汗跡和從鉛筆描繪的眉毛上來的黑線。她無聲地起身要走了。與此同時，她內心的罪惡感讓她深感自卑。</p>
  <p>The Countess awoke. She was again in pain, and her voice was
  now different.</p>
  <p>"伯爵夫人醒來了。她又感到疼痛，她的聲音現在不同了。"</p>
  <p>"Roma! Is that you?"</p>
  <p>"羅馬！是你嗎？"</p>
  <p>"Yes, aunt."</p>
  <p>"是的，阿姨。"</p>
  <p>"Why are you sitting in the darkness? I have a horror of
  darkness. You know that quite well."</p>
  <p>"你為什麼坐在黑暗中？我對黑暗有著恐懼。你應該很清楚這一點。"</p>
  <p>Roma turned on the lights.</p>
  <p>羅馬開啟了燈光。</p>
  <p>"Have I been speaking? What have I been saying?"<span class=
  "x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00331" title="260"><a id=
  "Page_260" title="260"></a></span></p>
  <p>"我有在說話嗎？我說了些什麼？"</p>
  <p>Roma tried to prevaricate.</p>
  <p>"羅馬試圖含糊其辭。"</p>
  <p>"You are telling me a falsehood. You know you are. You gave me
  that drug to make me tell you my secrets. But I know what I told
  you and it was all a lie. You needn't think because you've been
  listening.... It was a lie, I tell you...."</p>
  <p>
  "你在對我說謊。你知道你在說謊。你給我那種藥讓我告訴你我的秘密。但我知道我告訴你的都是謊言。你別以為你一直在聽就能得到什麼....那都是謊言，我告訴你...."</p>
  <p>The Sister came back at that moment, and Roma went to her
  room. She did not write her usual letter to David Rossi that
  night. Instead of doing so, she knelt by Elena's little Madonna,
  which she had set up on a table by her bed.</p>
  <p>
  此時，修女回來了，羅馬去了她的房間。那天晚上，她沒有寫她慣常給大衛·羅西的信。相反，她跪在了她床邊的桌子上，那裡搭建了一個伊萊娜的小瑪利亞像。</p>
  <p>Her own secret was troubling her. She had wanted to take it to
  some one, some woman, who would listen to her and comfort her.
  She had no mother, and her tears had begun to fall.</p>
  <p>`她的秘密困擾著她。她希望能有人，或者說一個女人，能聽她說出來並安慰她。她沒有母親，她的淚水已經開始滑落。`</p>
  <p>It was then that she thought of the world-mother, and
  remembered the prayer she had heard a thousand times but never
  used before.</p>
  <p>那時，她想到了世界之母，並記起了她曾經聽過一千次卻從未使用過的祈禱。</p>
  <p>"Holy Mary, Mother of God, pray for us sinners, now, and at
  the hour of death—Amen!"</p>
  <p>"聖母瑪利亞，天主之母，現在和我們臨終之時，為我們罪人祈禱—阿門!"</p>
  <p>When she rose from her knees she felt like a child who had
  been crying and was comforted.</p>
  <p>當她從膝蓋上站起來時，她感覺就像一個哭過並得到安慰的孩子。</p>
  <h3 id="pgepubid00332">IX</h3>
  <p>For some days after this the house was in a tumult. Men in red
  caps labelled "Casa di Vendita" were tearing up carpets, dragging
  out pieces of furniture and marking them. The catalogue was made,
  and bills were posted outside the street door announcing a sale
  of "Old and New Objects of Art" in the "Appartamento Volonna."
  Then came the "Grand Esposizione"—it was on Sunday morning—and
  the following day the auction.</p>
  <p>`之後的幾天，這所房子陷入一片混亂。穿著紅帽子的男人們在他們的帽子上繫著 "Casa di Vendita"
  的標籤，他們正在撕掉地毯，拉出傢俱並標記它們。目錄已經完成，並且在街門外張貼了公告，宣佈在 "Appartamento
  Volonna" 中銷售 "舊的和新的藝術品"。然後是 "Grand Esposizione"
  的來臨——這是在星期天的早晨——接著的一天是拍賣。`</p>
  <p>Roma built herself an ambush from prying eyes in one corner of
  the apartment. She turned her boudoir into a bedroom and
  sitting-room combined. From there she heard the shuffling of feet
  as the people assembled in the large dismantled drawing-room
  without. She was writing at a table when some one knocked at the
  door. It was the Commendatore Angelelli, in light clothes and
  silk hat. At that moment the look of servility in his long face
  prevailed over the look of arrogance.</p>
  <p>
  羅馬在公寓的一角為自己築起了一個免於偷窺的埋伏地。她將自己的化妝間變成了臥室兼客廳。從那裡，她聽到了人們在外面大的解體畫廳中集合時的腳步聲。當有人敲門時，她正在桌子上寫作。來人是Commendatore
  Angelelli，他身穿淺色衣服和絲帽。此刻，他那張長臉上的奴性神情比傲慢的神情更為突出。</p>
  <p>"Good-morning, Donna Roma. May I perhaps...."<span class=
  "x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00333" title="261"><a id=
  "Page_261" title="261"></a></span></p>
  <p>"早安，唐娜羅馬。也許我可以...."</p>
  <p>"Come in."</p>
  <p>"進來。"</p>
  <p>The lanky person settled himself comfortably and began on a
  confidential communication.</p>
  <p>那個瘦長的人舒適地坐下，並開始進行秘密的交談。</p>
  <p>"The Baron, sincerely sorry to hear of your distresses, sends
  me to say that you have only to make a request and this unseemly
  scene shall come to an end. In fact, I have authority to act on
  his behalf—as an unknown friend, you know—and stop these
  proceedings even at the eleventh hour. Only a word from you—one
  word—and everything shall be settled satisfactorily."</p>
  <p>
  "男爵誠心誠意的向你表示遺憾，聽說你遇到了困擾，他讓我來告訴你，你只需要提出一個請求，這個不合時宜的場景就可以結束了。事實上，我有權代表他行事——作為一個未知的朋友，你知道——即使在最後時刻也可以停止這些進行中的事情。你只需要說一句話
  ——只需要一句話——所有的事情都可以得到圓滿解決。"</p>
  <p>Roma was silent for a moment, and the Commendatore concluded
  that his persuasions had prevailed. Somebody else knocked at the
  door.</p>
  <p>"羅馬沉默了一會兒，而貴族認定他的說服已經成功。門口又有人敲門。"</p>
  <p>"Come in," said the Commendatore largely.</p>
  <p>"請進來," Commendatore大聲地說。</p>
  <p>This time it was the auctioneer. "Time to begin the sale,
  Signorina. Any commands?" He glanced from Roma to Angelelli with
  looks of understanding.</p>
  <p>"現在是拍賣師的輪到了。"拍賣即將開始，小姐。有什麼指示嗎？"他從羅馬轉向安格列利，眼神中流露出理解。</p>
  <p>"I think her Excellency has perhaps something to say," said
  Angelelli.</p>
  <p>"我想她的殿下可能有話要說，"安吉列利說。</p>
  <p>"Nothing whatever. Go on," said Roma.</p>
  <p>"無論如何，請繼續。"羅馬說。</p>
  <p>The auctioneer disappeared through the door, and Angelelli put
  on his hat.</p>
  <p>拍賣師消失在門後，Angelelli戴上了他的帽子。</p>
  <p>"Then you have no answer for his Excellency?"</p>
  <p>"那麼，對於他的閣下，您沒有答案嗎？"</p>
  <p>"None."</p>
  <p>"無"</p>
  <p>"<i>Bene</i>," said the Commendatore, and he went off
  whistling softly.</p>
  <p>"好的，"貢獻者說，然後他輕輕地吹著口哨走了。</p>
  <p>The auction began. At a table on a platform where the piano
  used to stand sat the chief auctioneer with his ivory hammer.
  Beneath him at a similar table sat an assistant. As the men in
  red caps brought up the goods the two auctioneers took the
  bidding together, repeating each other in the manner of actor and
  prompter at an Italian theatre.</p>
  <p>
  拍賣會開始了。主拍賣官帶著他的象牙錘坐在一個平臺上的桌子旁邊，那裡曾經放著鋼琴。他下面，助手坐在一張相似的桌子旁。當穿紅帽的人們把物品帶上來時，兩位拍賣官一起進行出價，彼此重複，就像義大利劇院裡的演員和提詞者一樣。</p>
  <p>The English Sister came to say that the Countess wished to see
  her niece immediately. The invalid, now frightfully emaciated and
  no longer able to sit up, was lying back on her lace-edged
  pillows. She was plucking with shrivelled and bony fingers at her
  figured counterpane, and as Roma entered she tried to burst out
  on her in a torrent of wrath. But the sound that came from her
  throat was like a voice shouted on a windy headland, and hardly
  louder than the muffled voices of the auctioneers as they found
  their way through the walls.</p>
  <p>
  英國修女來說，伯爵夫人希望立刻見到她的侄女。這位病人現在低病中橫在她的蕾絲邊枕頭上，已經變得非常消瘦，無法再坐起來。她用枯瘦和骨感的手指撕扯著自己的圖案床單，當羅馬（Roma）進來的時候，她試圖爆發她的憤怒。但從她喉嚨發出的聲音就像是在風吹岬角上的呼喊，幾乎不比拍賣師們的聲音大，他們的聲音透過牆壁傳來，聽起來像是被抑制的。</p>
  <p>Roma sat down on the stool by the bedside, stroked
  the<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00334" title=
  "262"><a id="Page_262" title="262"></a></span> cat with the gold
  cross suspended from its neck, and listened to the words within
  the room and without as they fell on her ear alternately.</p>
  <p>"羅馬坐在床邊的凳子上，撫摸著掛著金色十字架的貓，並輪流聆聽著室內外的聲音。"</p>
  <p>"Roma, you are treating me shamefully. While I am lying here
  helpless you are having an auction—actually an auction—at the
  door of my very room."</p>
  <p>"羅馬，你這是在對我太不堪了。我躺在這裡無助的時候，你卻在我的房門口進行拍賣-真的是拍賣。"</p>
  <p>"Camera da letto della Signorina! Bed in <i>noce</i>, richly
  ornamented with fruit and flowers." "Shall I say fifty?" "Thank
  you, fifty." "Fifty." "Fifty-five." "Fifty-five." "No advance on
  fifty-five?" "Gentlemen, gentlemen! The beautiful bed of a
  beautiful lady, and only fifty-five offered for it!..."</p>
  <p>"小姐的臥室! 胡桃木床,豐富地飾有水果和花朵。" "我可以說五十嗎?" "謝謝，五十。" "五十。" "五十五。"
  "五十五。" "五十五上沒有進展嗎?" "先生們，先生們！美麗女士的美麗床，只有五十五提供給它!..."</p>
  <p>"If you wanted money you had only to ask the Baron, and if you
  didn't wish to do that, you had only to sign a bill at six
  months, as I told you before. But no! You wanted to humble and
  degrade me. That's all it is. You've done it, too, and I'm dying
  in disgrace...."</p>
  <p>
  "如果你想要錢，你只需要向男爵提出，如果你不想這麼做，你只需要簽一個六個月的賬單，就像我之前告訴你的那樣。但不！你只是想要羞辱和貶低我。這就是全部。你也做到了，我正在恥辱中死去...."</p>
  <p>"Secretaire in walnut! Think, ladies, of the secrets this
  writing-desk might whisper if it would! How much shall I say?"
  "Sixty lire." "Sixty." "Sixty-five." "Sixty-five." "Writing-desk
  in walnut with the love letters hardly out of it, and only
  sixty-five lire offered!..."</p>
  <p>"胡桃木製的書桌！女士們，想像一下，如果這書桌能說話，它可能會低聲細語的是些什麼秘密呢！我應該說多少呢？" "六十里拉。"
  "六十。" "六十五。" "六十五。"
  "這是一張胡桃木的書桌，上面還有幾乎未曾取出的情書，而只有六十五里拉的出價！..."</p>
  <p>"This is what comes of a girl going her own way. Society is
  not so very exacting, but it revenges itself on people who defy
  the respectabilities. And quite right, too! Pity they could not
  be the only ones to suffer, but they can't. Their friends and
  relations are the real sufferers; and as for me...."</p>
  <p>
  "這就是女孩子自行其道的後果。社會並不是很苛刻，但是它會報復那些蔑視尊重的人。這做得很對！可惜他們不能是唯一受苦的人，但是他們不能。他們的朋友和親戚是真正的受苦者；至於我...."</p>
  <p>The Countess's voice broke down into a maudlin whimper.
  Without a word Roma rose up to go. As she did so she met Natalina
  coming into the room with the usual morning plate of forced
  strawberries. They had cost four francs the pound.</p>
  <p>
  "伯爵夫人的聲音漸漸變得撕心裂肺。羅馬一言不發地站起來要走。就在這時，她遇到了娜塔蓮娜帶著早晨的草莓盤子走進了房間。這些草莓每磅花費了四法郎。"</p>
  <p>Some time afterwards, from her writing-table in the
  boudoir-bedroom, Roma heard a shuffling of feet on the circular
  iron stairs. The people were going down to the studio. Presently
  the auctioneer's voice came up as from a vault.</p>
  <p>
  "過了一段時間，羅馬在臥室的書桌旁聽到有人在螺旋鐵梯上的腳步聲。人們正往工作室下去。不久，拍賣師的聲音從地窖裡傳了上來。"</p>
  <p>"And now what am I offered for this large and important work
  of modern art?"</p>
  <p>"那麼，這項巨大且重要的現代藝術作品，我現在能得到什麼報價呢？"</p>
  <p>There was a ripple of derisive laughter.</p>
  <p>那裡傳出一陣嘲諷的笑聲。</p>
  <p>"A fountain worthy, when finished, to rank with the
  masterpieces of ancient Rome."</p>
  <p>"當完成時，這座噴泉足以與古羅馬的傑作並列。"</p>
  <p>More derisive laughter.<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id=
  "pgepubid00335" title="263"><a id="Page_263" title=
  "263"></a></span></p>
  <p>更多的嘲笑聲。</p>
  <p>"Now is the time for anti-clericals. Gentlemen, don't all
  speak at once. Every day is not a festa. How much? Nothing at
  all? Not even a soldo? Too bad. Art is its own reward."</p>
  <p>"現在是反教權主義者的時代。先生們，不要都一起說話。 並非每天都是節日。多少錢？一點也不？甚至連一個索爾多都沒有？
  太糟糕了。藝術本身就是獎賞。"</p>
  <p>Still more laughter, followed by the shuffling of feet coming
  up the iron stairs, and a familiar voice on the landing—it was
  the Princess Bellini's—"Madonna mia! what a fright it is, to be
  sure!"</p>
  <p>"還有更多的笑聲，隨著腳步聲在鐵樓梯上傳來，一個熟悉的聲音在走廊上響起——那是貝利尼公主——"瑪利亞啊!
  它確實令人害怕!"</p>
  <p>Then another voice—it was Madame Bella's—"I thought so the day
  of the private view, when she behaved so shockingly to the dear
  Baron."</p>
  <p>於是另一個聲音響起，那是貝拉夫人的—"我在私人觀看的那一天就這麼想了，當她對親愛的男爵表現得如此令人震驚。"</p>
  <p>Then a third voice—it was the voice of Olga the journalist—"I
  said the Baron would pay her out, and he has. Before the day is
  over she'll not have a stick left or a roof to cover her."</p>
  <p>
  然後一個第三種聲音，那是記者奧爾加的聲音——"我說過男爵會讓她付出代價，現在他做到了。等一天結束，她身無分文，也沒有一個能遮蔽她的屋頂。"</p>
  <p>Roma dropped her head on to the table. Try as she might to
  keep a brave front, the waves of shame and humiliation were
  surging over her.</p>
  <p>"羅馬把頭低下至桌面。她積極試著保持一顆勇敢的心，但羞恥和屈辱的波濤正壓倒了她。"</p>
  <p>Some one touched her on the shoulder. It was Natalina with a
  telegram: "Letter received; my apartment is paid for to end of
  June; why not take possession of it?"</p>
  <p>
  有人在她的肩膀上輕輕一碰。那是Natalina，她手上拿著一則電報：“收到了信；我的公寓已付到六月底；為何不去佔據呢？”</p>
  <p>From that moment onward nothing else mattered. The tumultuous
  noises in the drawing-room died down, and there was no sound but
  the voices of the auctioneer and his clerk, which rumbled like a
  drum in the empty chamber.</p>
  <p>
  從那一刻起，其它的一切都不再重要。起居室中的喧囂聲漸漸消退，只剩下拍賣師和他的助手的聲音，在空蕩蕩的房間中如鼓聲般咆哮。</p>
  <p>It was four o'clock. Opening the window, Roma heard the music
  of a band. At that a spirit of defiance took possession of her,
  and she put on her hat and cloak. As she passed through the empty
  drawing-room, the auctioneer, who was counting his notes with the
  dry rustle of a winnowing machine, looked up with his beady eyes
  and said:</p>
  <p>
  是下午四點鐘。羅馬開窗時，聽見了樂隊的音樂。聽到這聲音，絕對的反抗精神充滿了她的心，她穿上了她的帽子和披風。當她穿過空蕩蕩的畫室時，正在數錢的拍賣人抬起頭來，他那像珠子般的眼睛看向她，且出聲道：</p>
  <p>"It has come out fairly well, Madame—better than we might have
  expected."</p>
  <p>"這個結果還算不錯，夫人——比我們預期的要好。"</p>
  <p>On reaching the piazza she hailed a cab. "The Pincio!" she
  cried, and settled in her seat. When she returned an hour
  afterwards she wrote her usual letter to David Rossi.</p>
  <p>
  當她到達廣場時，她呼叫了一輛出租車。“皮恩希奧！”她大喊，然後坐穩了自己的位置。一個小時後，當她回來時，她寫了她通常給大衛·羅西的信。</p>
  <p style="padding-top:.5em">"High doings to-day! Have had a
  business on my own account, and done a roaring trade! Disposed of
  everything in the shop except what I wanted for myself. It isn't
  every trades-woman who can say that much, and I'm only a beginner
  to boot!</p>
  <p style="padding-top:.5em">
  "今天真是大忙人！我開始自己做生意，而且生意興隆！商店裡的東西除了我自己需要的以外，全部都賣光了。不是所有的商人都能說出這麼多，而我只是剛開始做生意！"</p>
  <p>"Soberly, I've sold up. Being under notice to leave
  this<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00336" title=
  "264"><a id="Page_264" title="264"></a></span> apartment, I
  didn't want all this useless furniture, so I thought I might as
  well get done with it in good time. Besides, what right had I to
  soft beds and fine linen while you were an exile, sleeping Heaven
  knows where? And then my aunt, who is very ill and wants all
  sorts of luxuries, is rather expensive. So for the past week my
  drawing-room has been as full of fluting as a frog-pond at
  sunset, and on Sunday morning people were banging away at my poor
  piano as if it had been a hurdy-gurdy at an osteria.</p>
  <p>
  "莊重地，我已經把所有東西賣了。因為收到了搬家通知，我不想要這些沒有用的傢俱，所以我想我可能要及時處理。此外，當你被放逐，不知道在哪裡睡覺的時候，我有什麼權利享受軟床和美麗的亞麻布呢？還有我的阿姨，她病得很重，需要各種奢侈品，所以相當昂貴。所以，在過去的一週，我的客廳充滿了笛聲，就像黃昏時的青蛙池塘一樣，星期天早上，人們像在酒吧的手風琴一樣狂烈地敲打我的可憐鋼琴。"</p>
  <p>"But, oh dear! how stupid the world is! People thought because
  I was selling what I didn't want I must be done. You would have
  laughed to hear their commentaries. To tell you the truth, I was
  so silly that I could have cried, but just at the moment when I
  felt a wee bit badly, down came your telegram like an angel from
  Heaven—and what do you think I did? The old Adam, or say the new
  Eve, took possession of me, and the minute the people were gone I
  hired a cab—a common garden cab, Roman variety, with a horse on
  its last legs and a driver in ragged tweeds—and drove off to the
  Pincio! I wanted to show those fine folk that I <i>wasn't</i>
  done, and I did! They were all there, my dear friends and former
  flatterers—every one of them who has haunted my house for years,
  asking for this favour or that, and paying me in the coin of
  sweetest smiles. It seemed as if fate had gathered them all
  together for my personal inspection and wouldn't let a creature
  escape.</p>
  <p>
  "但是，哎喲！這世界多麼愚蠢！人們因為看到我在賣掉我不需要的東西，就認為我一定是倒下了。你一定會對他們的評價笑出來。告訴你實話，我當時愚蠢得都快要哭出來了，但是就在我覺得有點難過的時候，你的電報像一位天使般從天而降——你猜我做了什麼？我的舊我，或者說新的夏娃，奪走了我，當人們都走後，我租了一輛出租車——一輛普通的羅馬花園車，配有一匹老馬和一名穿著破破爛爛的斜紋軟呢衣的司機——然後開往皮恩奇歐山！我想向那些高貴的人們展示我並沒有倒下，而我做到了！他們都在那裡，我的親愛朋友和昔日那些奉承我的人——每一個都曾經蹲守在我家的人，向我要求這個那個恩惠，並用最甜美的微笑來報答我。好像命運已將他們全部聚集起來，讓我親自審查，也不會讓一個生物逃脫。"</p>
  <p>"Did they see me? Not a soul of them! I drove through them and
  between them, and they bowed across and before and behind me, and
  I might have been as invisible as Asmodeus for all the
  consciousness they betrayed of my presence. Was I humiliated?
  Confused? Crushed? Oh, dear no! I was proud. I knew the day would
  come, the day was near, when they must try to forget all this and
  to persuade themselves it had never been, when for my own sake,
  even mine, and for yours, most of all for yours, they would come
  back humble, so humble and afraid.</p>
  <p>
  "他們看見我了嗎？沒有一個靈魂看見我！我穿越他們之間，他們在我前後跪下，我可能像阿斯莫德一樣無形，因為他們對我存在的認知完全沒有表達出來。我感到屈辱了嗎？困擾了嗎？被擊敗了嗎？哦，當然不！我很自豪。我知道那一天會來的，那一天正在臨近，當他們必須試圖忘記所有這一切，並說服自己這從未發生過，當為了我自己的利益，甚至為了你們的利益，他們會回來，回來的又謙卑又恐懼。"</p>
  <p>"So I gave them every chance. I was bold and I did not spare
  them. And when the sun began to sink behind St. Peter's and the
  band stopped, and we turned to go, I know which of us went home
  happy and unashamed. Oh, David Rossi! If you could have been
  there!</p>
  <p>
  "所以我給了他們每一次機會。我大膽，並且我不會寬恕他們。當太陽開始沉沒在聖彼得的後面，而樂隊停了下來，當我們轉身離開時，我知道我們中誰帶著快樂和不感到羞愧的回家。哦，大衛·羅西！如果你可能在那裡！"</p>
  <p>"I must write again on other matters. Meantime, one item of
  news. Lawyer Napoleon, who continues to go to<span class=
  "x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00337" title="265"><a id=
  "Page_265" title="265"></a></span> Regina Cœli to see the
  bewildering Bruno, saw Charles Minghelli there in prison clothes!
  If the God who settles the question of sex had only remembered to
  make your wife the procurator-general, think how different the
  history of the world would have been! The worst of it is he
  mightn't have remembered to make you a woman; and in any case,
  things being so nicely settled as they are, I don't think I want
  to be a man. I waft a kiss to you on the wings of the wind. It's
  ponente to-day, so it ought to be warm."</p>
  <p>
  "我必須再次寫關於其他事情。然而，有一條新聞。律師拿破崙繼續去雷吉娜Cœli看令人困惑的布魯諾，他在那裡看到了查爾斯·明赫利穿著監獄制服！如果決定性別的上帝只記得把你的妻子做成總檢察長，想想世界的歷史會有多麼的不同！最糟糕的是他可能不記得把你變成一個女人;
  然而，無論如何，由於事情如此的完美安排，我並不想成為一個男人。我在風的翅膀上向你飄來一個吻。今天是ponente，所以它應該會很暖。"</p>
  <p style="text-align:right; margin-top:-1em;"><span class=
  "smcap">Roma</span>.</p>
  <p style="text-align:right; margin-top:-1em;">羅馬</p>
  <p style="padding-bottom:.5em">"P.S.—My poor friend is still in
  trouble. Although not a religious woman, she has taken to saying
  a 'Hail Mary' every night on going to bed, and if it wasn't for
  that I'm afraid she would commit suicide, so frightful are the
  visions that enter her head sometimes. I've told her how wrong it
  would be to do away with herself, if only for the sake of her
  husband, who is away. Didn't I tell you he was away at present?
  It would hurt you dreadfully if <i>I</i> were to die before
  <i>you</i> return, wouldn't it? But I'm dying already to hear
  what you think of her. Write! Write! Write!"</p>
  <p style="padding-bottom:.5em">
  "附註——我那可憐的朋友仍然處於困境之中。雖然她並不是一個虔誠的宗教人士，但她已經開始在每晚睡前說一遍'聖母瑪利亞禱文'，如果不是因為這個，我恐怕她會自殺，因為有時她的頭腦中充滿了可怕的幻象。我告訴她自殺是多麼錯誤的一件事，即使只是出於她丈夫的緣故，他現在不在。我沒有告訴你他現在不在嗎？如果我在您回來之前去世了，是不是會讓您感到非常痛心？但是，我現在已經迫不及待想知道你對她的看法了。寫！寫！寫！"</p>
  <h3 id="pgepubid00338">X</h3>
  <p>When the King of Terrors could no longer be beaten back the
  Countess sent for the priest. Before he arrived she insisted on
  making her toilet and receiving him in the dressing-gown which
  she used to wear when people made ante-camera to her in the days
  of her gaiety and strength.</p>
  <p>
  當恐怖之王無法被再次擊退時，伯爵夫人派人找來神父。在他到達之前，她堅持要打扮一番，並穿著她在活躍和強壯的日子裡接待來賓時常穿的睡袍來接待他。</p>
  <p>During the time of the Countess's confession Roma sat in her
  own room with a tremor of the heart which she had never felt
  before. Something personal and very intimate was creeping over
  her soul. She heard the indistinct murmur of the priest's voice
  at intervals, followed by a sibilant sound as of whispers and
  sobs.</p>
  <p>
  在伯爵夫人懺悔的時候，羅馬坐在她自己的房間裡，心中充滿了她以前從未感受過的顫動。一些個人的，非常親密的情緒正在滲透她的靈魂。她時不時地聽到神父模糊的聲音，隨後是一陣嘶嘶聲，像是低語和抽泣的聲音。</p>
  <p>The confession lasted fifteen minutes and then the priest came
  out of the room. "Now that your relative has made her peace with
  God," he said, "she must receive the Blessed Sacrament, Extreme
  Unction, and the Apostolic Blessing."</p>
  <p>
  "懺悔持續了十五分鐘，然後牧師走出了房間。「現在你的親戚已經與上帝和解，」他說，「她必須接受聖體禮，終傅禮，和使徒祝福。」"</p>
  <p>He went away to prepare for these offices, and the English
  Sister came to see Roma. "The Countess is like another woman
  already," she said, but Roma did not go into the
  sickroom.<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00339"
  title="266"><a id="Page_266" title="266"></a></span></p>
  <p>他離開去準備這些事情，然後英國的修女來看羅馬。"伯爵夫人已經像另一個女人，"她說，但羅馬沒有進入病房。</p>
  <p>The priest returned in half-an-hour. He had now two
  assistants, one carrying the cross and banner, the other a vessel
  of holy water and the volume of the Roman ritual. The Sister and
  Felice met them at the door with lighted candles.</p>
  <p>
  神父半小時後返回，現在有兩位助手，一位攜帶十字架和旗幟，另一位攜帶聖水和羅馬禮儀的卷軸。修女與費利克斯在門口用點燃的蠟燭迎接他們。</p>
  <p>"Peace be to this house!" said the priest.</p>
  <p>"願這所房子平安!"神父說。</p>
  <p>And the assistants said, "And to all dwelling in it."</p>
  <p>"而助手說：「給所有居住在其中的人。」"</p>
  <p>Then the priest took off an outer cloak, revealing his white
  surplice and violet stole, and followed the candles into the
  Countess's room. The little card-table had been covered with a
  damask napkin and laid out as an altar. All the dainty articles
  of the dying woman's dressing-table, her scent-flasks, rouge pots
  and puffs, were huddled together with various medicine bottles on
  a chest of drawers at the back. It was two o'clock in the
  afternoon and the sun was shining, so the curtains were drawn and
  the shutters closed. In the darkened room the candles burned like
  stars.</p>
  <p>
  然後，神父脫下了外衣，露出他的白色祭袍和紫色領巾，跟著燭光走進了伯爵夫人的房間。那張小牌桌被覆蓋上一塊大馬士革餐巾，佈置成了祭壇。瀕死的婦人精緻的梳妝臺上的所有物品，她的香水瓶，胭脂盒和粉撲，都與各種藥瓶混在一起，放在背後的一個抽屜櫃上。當時是下午兩點，太陽正在照耀，所以窗簾被拉上，百葉窗被關閉。在昏暗的房間裡，蠟燭如星星般燃燒。</p>
  <p>The ghostly viaticum being over, the priest and his assistants
  left the house. But the pale, grinning shadow of death continued
  to stand by the perfumed couch.</p>
  <p>神職人員完成了鬼魂般的應殉儀式後，離開了這個房子。然而，死亡的蒼白笑臉影子繼續站在香氣濃郁的沙發旁。</p>
  <p>Roma had not been present at the offices, and presently the
  English Sister came to say that the Countess wished to see
  her.</p>
  <p>"羅馬沒有出現在辦公室，稍後英國修女來說伯爵夫人想見她。"</p>
  <p>"It's perfectly miraculous," said the Sister. "She's like
  another woman."</p>
  <p>"真是太神奇了，"修女說。"她就像另一個女人。"</p>
  <p>"Has she had her opiate lately?" said Roma, and the Sister
  answered that she had.</p>
  <p>"她最近有服用麻醉劑嗎？" 羅馬問，這位修女回答說她有。</p>
  <p>Roma found her aunt in a kind of mystical transport. A great
  light of joy, almost of pride, was shining in her face.</p>
  <p>羅馬發現她的阿姨處於一種神秘的狀態。一股巨大的喜悅光芒，幾乎是驕傲，照亮了她的臉。</p>
  <p>"All my pains are gone," she said. "All my sorrows and trials
  too. I have laid them all on Christ, and now I am going to mount
  up with Him to God."</p>
  <p>"所有的痛苦都已消失，"她說。"我所有的悲傷和試煉也一樣。我已將它們全部交給基督，現在我將隨他升上天堂。"</p>
  <p>Clearly she had no sense of her guilt towards Roma. She began
  to take a high tone with her, the tone of a saint towards a
  sinner.</p>
  <p>顯然，她對於對羅馬的罪感毫無自覺。她開始以一種聖者對待罪人的高姿態對她，真是狂妄無知。</p>
  <p>"You must conquer your worldly passions, Roma. You have been a
  sinner, but you must not die a bad death. For instance, you are
  selfish. I am sorry to say it, but you know you are. You must
  confess and dedicate your life to fighting the sin in your sinful
  heart, and commend your soul to His mercy who has washed me from
  all stain."</p>
  <p>"你必須克服你的世俗慾望， Roma。你一直是個罪人，
  但你不應該死得那麼悲慘。例如，你是自私的。我很抱歉這麼說，但你自己知道你是。你必須承認並將你的生命奉獻給與你的罪孽之心作戰，並將你的靈魂專注於他的憐憫，他已將我從所有的污點中洗淨。"</p>
  <p>But the Countess's ethereal transports did not wholly eclipse
  her worldly vanities when she proceeded to preparations for her
  funeral.<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00340"
  title="267"><a id="Page_267" title="267"></a></span></p>
  <p>但是，伯爵夫人的超凡脫俗的情感並未完全掩蓋她世俗的虛榮，當她開始為自己的葬禮做準備。</p>
  <p>"Let there be a Requiem Mass, Roma. Everybody has it. It costs
  a little, certainly, but we can't think of money in a case like
  this. And send for the Raveggi Company to do the funeral pomps,
  and see they don't put me on a tressel. I am a noble and have a
  right to be laid on the church floor. See they bury me on high
  ground. The little Pincio is where the best people are buried
  now, above the tomb of Duke Massimo."</p>
  <p>"讓我們舉行一場安魂彌撒，羅馬。每個人都會有。這確實需要花一點錢，但在這種情況下，我們不能考慮金錢的問題。另外，請找
  Raveggi
  公司來辦理葬禮，確保他們不要把我放在支架上。我是一位貴族，有權在教堂地板上安置。確保他們把我埋在高地上。現在最好的人都埋在小皮恩希奧體育場上，就在杜克馬希莫的墓以上。"</p>
  <p>Roma continued to say "Yes," and "Yes," and "Yes," though her
  very heart felt sore.</p>
  <p>"羅馬繼續說'是的'，'是的'，'是的'，雖然她的心非常疼痛。"</p>
  <p>Two hours afterwards the Countess was in her death agony. The
  tortured body had prevailed over the rapturous soul, and she was
  calling for more and more of the opiate. Everybody was odious to
  her, and her angular face was snapping all round.</p>
  <p>
  兩小時後，伯爵夫人陷入了死亡的痛苦之中。被折磨的身體戰勝了狂喜的靈魂，她不斷地要求更多的鴉片。對她來說，所有人都是可憎的，她的線條銳利的臉孔四處皺紋。</p>
  <p>The priest came to say the prayers for the dying. It was near
  to sunset, but the shutters were still closed, and the room had a
  grim solemnity. A band was playing on the Pincio, and the strains
  of an opera mingled with the petitions of the "breathing
  forth."</p>
  <p>神父來為快要離世的人禱告。那時接近日落，
  但是窗戶還是關著的，房間有一種嚴肅的悲劇氣息。樂隊正在平西奧公園演奏，歌劇的悠揚交織著「向外呼吸」的請求。</p>
  <p>Everybody knelt except Roma. She alone was standing, but her
  heart was on its knees and her whole soul was prostrate.</p>
  <p>除了羅馬，所有人都跪下了。她獨自站立，但她的心已是跪著，她的整個靈魂都已俯首。</p>
  <p>The priest put a crucifix in the Countess's hand and she
  kissed it fervently, pronouncing all the time with gasping breath
  the name, "Gesù, Gesù, Gesù!"</p>
  <p>"神父把十字架放在伯爵夫人的手中，她熱情地親吻了它，一直喘息著呼喊著名字，“耶穌，耶穌，耶穌！”"</p>
  <p>The passing bell of the parish church was tolling in slow
  strokes, and the priest was praying fast and loud:</p>
  <p>教區教堂的鐘聲悠悠響起，神父快速且大聲地祈禱：</p>
  <p>"May Christ who called thee receive thee, and let angels lead
  thee into the bosom of Abraham."</p>
  <p>"願基督接納你的召喚，並讓天使引領你進入亞伯拉罕的懷抱。"</p>
  <p>At one moment the crucifix dropped from the dying woman's
  hands, and her diamond rings, now too large for the shrivelled
  fingers, fell on to the counterpane. A little later her wig fell
  off, and for an instant her head was bald. Her forehead was
  perspiring; her breath was rattling in her chest. At last she
  became delirious.</p>
  <p>
  在某一刻，十字架從垂死的女人手中滑落，她的鑽石戒指，現在對於萎縮的手指來說太大了，落到了床單上。稍後，她的假髮脫落，瞬間她的頭光禿禿的。她的前額在流汗；她的呼吸在胸中咯咯作響。最後，她陷入了昏迷。</p>
  <p>"It's a lie!" she cried. "Everything I've said is a lie! I
  didn't kill it!" Then she rolled aside, and the crucifix fell on
  to the floor.</p>
  <p>“那是謊言！”她哭著說，“我所說的一切都是謊言！我沒有殺它！”然後她翻身向旁邊滾去，十字架落在了地板上。</p>
  <p>The priest, who had been praying faster and faster every
  moment, rose to his feet and said in an altered tone, "We commend
  to Thee, O Lord, the soul of Thy handmaiden, Elizabeth, that
  being dead to the world she may live to<span class=
  "x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00341" title="268"><a id=
  "Page_268" title="268"></a></span> Thee, and those sins which
  through the frailty of human life she has committed Thou by the
  indulgence of Thy loving kindness may wipe out, through Christ
  our Lord, Amen."</p>
  <p>
  “神父，他的祈禱速度每一刻都在加快，然後站起來，以改變了的語氣說，'我們把你的僕女伊麗莎白的靈魂交給你，主啊，好讓她對世界已經死去，她可能活在你身上，那些她在人類生活的脆弱中犯下的罪過，你可以透過你的慈愛的寬容來抹去，透過我們的主基督，阿門。'</p>
  <p>The priest's voice died down to an inarticulate murmur and
  then stopped. A moment afterwards the curtains were drawn back,
  the shutters parted, and the windows thrown open. A flood of
  sunset light streamed into the room. The candles burnt yellow and
  went out. The mystic rites were at an end.</p>
  <p>
  神父的聲音逐漸降低到無法聽清的低語，然後停止。過了一會兒，窗簾被拉開，窗關分開，窗戶被開啟。夕陽的光照進了房間。蠟燭燃燒出黃色的光，然後熄滅。神秘的儀式結束了。</p>
  <p>Roma fled back to her own room. Her storm-tossed soul was
  foundering.</p>
  <p>羅馬逃回了她自己的房間。她那受風暴洗禮的靈魂正在沉淪。</p>
  <p>The band was still playing on the Pincio, and the sun was
  going down behind St. Peter's, when Roma took up her pen to
  write.</p>
  <p>當樂隊仍在Pincio演奏，太陽正在聖彼得大教堂的後方落下時，Roma拿起她的筆開始寫作。</p>
  <p>"She is dead! The life she clung to so desperately has left
  her at last. How she held on to it! And now she has gone to give
  an account of the deeds done in this body. Yet who am I to talk
  like this? Only a poor, unhappy fellow-sinner.</p>
  <p>"她已經去世了!
  她曾如此迫切地堅持的生命終於離她而去。她對生活的執著！而現在，她已經去向上帝報告這具身體所做的行為。然而，我又算是誰來這樣說話？只是一個可憐無助的同罪者。"</p>
  <p>"After confession she thought she was forgiven. She imagined
  she was pure, sinless, soulful. Perhaps she was so, and only the
  pains of death made her seem to fall away. But what a power in
  confession! Oh, the joy in her poor face when she had lifted the
  burden of her sins and secrets off her soul! Forgiveness! What a
  thing it must be to feel one's self forgiven!...</p>
  <p>
  "在懺悔之後，她認為自己已被原諒。她想象自己純潔無瑕，有靈魂。也許她就是這樣，只是死亡的痛苦讓她看似墮落。但是，懺悔的力量何其巨大！哦，當她把罪惡和秘密從自己的靈魂中卸下時，她那可憐的臉上流露出的喜悅！原諒！體驗到自我被原諒的感覺，必定是何等的美好……"</p>
  <p>"I cannot write any more to-day, my dear one, but there will
  be news for you next time, great and serious news."</p>
  <p>"我今天不能再寫下去了，親愛的，但下次會有新聞給你，重大而嚴肅的新聞。"</p>
  <h3 id="pgepubid00342">XI</h3>
  <p>Roma fulfilled her promise. The funeral pomps, if the Countess
  could have seen them, would have satisfied her vain little mind.
  On going to the parish church the procession covered the entire
  length of the street. First the banner with skull, cross-bones,
  and hour-glass, then a confraternity of lay people, then twenty
  paid mourners in evening dress, then fifty Capuchins at two
  francs a head with yellow candles at three francs each, then the
  cross, then the secular clergy two and two, then the parish
  priest in surplice and black stole with servitors and acolytes,
  then a stately funeral car<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id=
  "pgepubid00343" title="269"><a id="Page_269" title=
  "269"></a></span> with four horses richly harnessed, and finally
  four coaches with coachmen and footmen in gala livery. The bier
  was loaded with flowers and streamers, and the cost of the
  cortège was nearly a thousand francs.</p>
  <p>
  羅馬達成了她的承諾。如果伯爵夫人能看到的話，葬禮的盛況肯定能滿足她那虛榮的心思。當靈車前往教區教堂時，整條街的長度都被喪禮隊伍覆蓋了。首先是帶有骷髏、十字骨頭和沙漏的旗幟，然後是一個平信徒組織，然後是20位身著晚禮服的僱傭哀悼者，然後是50位每人兩法郎，手持三法郎黃色蠟燭的卡普奇諾修士，然後是十字架，然後是兩兩的世俗神職人員，然後是身著僧衣和黑色祭帽，帶有侍者和侍童的教區主任司牧，然後是一輛華麗的靈車，配有四匹裝飾豪華的馬，最後是四輛帶有節日裝束的車伕和僕人的馬車。棺木上堆滿了花朵和彩帶，而喪禮的花費近千法郎。</p>
  <p>As Roma passed out of the church with head down some one spoke
  to her. It was the Baron, carrying his hat, on which there was a
  deep black band. His tall spare figure, high forehead, straight
  hair, and features hard as iron, made a painful impression.</p>
  <p>
  當羅馬低著頭走出教堂時，有人對她說話。那是男爵，他帶著一頂帽子，帽子上有一條深黑色的帶子。他高瘦的身形，高聳的前額，直直的頭髮，還有如鐵般堅硬的面部特徵，給人一種痛苦的印象。</p>
  <p>"Sorry I cannot go on to the Campo Santo," he said, and then
  he added something about breaks in the chain of life which Roma
  did not hear.</p>
  <p>"對不起，我無法繼續前往Campo
  Santo（公墓），"他說，然後他又提到了關於生命鏈條中的中斷，但羅馬並沒有聽到。</p>
  <p>"I trust it is not true, as I am given to understand, that on
  leaving your apartment you are going to live in the house of a
  certain person whom I need not name. That would, I assure you, be
  a grave error, and I would earnestly counsel you not to commit
  it."</p>
  <p>
  "我希望我所聞的不是真的，你在離開你的公寓後，打算住在我無需具名的某個人的家裡。我向你保證，這將是一個嚴重的錯誤，我真誠地勸告你不要犯這個錯誤。"</p>
  <p>She made no reply but walked on to the door of the carriage.
  He helped her to enter it, and then said: "Remember, my attitude
  is the same as ever. Do not deny me the satisfaction of serving
  you in your hour of need."</p>
  <p>
  她沒有回答，但走到了馬車的門口。他幫她進入了車內，然後說：“記住，我的態度跟以往一樣。在你需要的時候，別拒絕讓我為你服務的滿足感。”</p>
  <p>When Roma came to full possession of herself after the Requiem
  Mass, the cortège was on its way to the cemetery. There was a
  line of carriages. Most of them were empty as the mourning of
  which they formed a part. The parish priest sat with his acolyte,
  who held a crucifix before his eyes so that his thoughts might
  not wander. He took snuff and said his Matins for to-morrow.</p>
  <p>
  當羅馬在安魂彌撒後完全蘇醒過來時，葬禮隊伍正在前往墓地的途中。那裡有一排馬車。它們中的大部分都是空的，就像它們所屬的一部分悼念一樣。教區神父與他的助祭坐在一起，助祭在他眼前握著一個十字架，好讓他的思想不會走神。他抽了納芙並為明天的早課做準備。</p>
  <p>The necropolis of Rome is outside the Porta San Lorenzo, by
  the church of that name. The bier drew up at the House of
  Deposit. When the coaches discharged their occupants, Roma saw
  that except the paid servants of the funeral she was the only
  mourner. The Countess's friends, like herself, disliked the sight
  of churchyards.</p>
  <p>
  羅馬的墓地位於聖勞倫薩門外，靠近同名的教堂。靈車停在存放之家。當馬車卸下乘客時，羅馬看到，除了付薪的葬禮服務人員外，她是唯一的哀悼者。伯爵夫人的朋友們，像她一樣，不喜歡看到墓地。</p>
  <p>The House of Deposit, a low-roofed chamber under a chapel,
  contained tressels for every kind and condition of the dead. One
  place was labelled "Reserved for distinguished corpses." The
  coffin of the Countess was put to rest there until the buriers
  should come to bury it in the morning, the wreaths and flowers
  and streamers were laid over it, the priest sprinkled it again
  with holy water, and then the funeral was at an end.</p>
  <p>
  "存放之家"，是一個位於教堂下的低頂室，裡面有適合所有型別和狀態的死者的架子。有一個地方標著“為傑出遺體保留”。伯爵夫人的棺材被放在那裡，等待早晨來埋葬的人將其埋葬，鮮花和絢麗的絲帶被放在上面，牧師再次用聖水灑在它上面，然後葬禮就結束了。</p>
  <p>"I will not go back yet," said Roma, and thereupon
  the<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00344" title=
  "270"><a id="Page_270" title="270"></a></span> priest and his
  assistants stepped into the carriages. The drivers lit cigarettes
  and started off at a brisk trot.</p>
  <p>"我還不會回去," 羅馬說道，隨後神父和他的助手們走進了車廂。駕駛員點燃了煙，然後快步出發。</p>
  <p>It had been a gorgeous funeral, and the soul of the Countess
  would have been satisfied. But the grinning King of Terrors had
  stood by all the time, saying, "Vanity of vanities, all is
  vanity."</p>
  <p>
  那是一場華麗的葬禮，伯爵夫人的靈魂本該感到滿足。但是，終其一生的死神始終站在旁邊，一邊笑著一邊說，“空空如也，全部都是空虛。”</p>
  <p>Roma bought a wreath of wild flowers at a stall outside the
  cemetery gates, and by help of a paper given to her in the office
  she found the grave of little Joseph. It was in a shelf of vaults
  like ovens, each with its marble door, and a photograph on the
  front. They were all photographs of children, sweet smiling
  faces, a choir of little angels, now singing round the throne in
  heaven. The sun was shining on them, and the tall cypress trees
  were singing softly in the light wind overhead. Here and there a
  mother was trimming an oil-lamp that hung before her baby's face,
  and listening to the little voice that was not dead but speaking
  to her soul's soul.</p>
  <p>
  羅馬在墓地門外的攤位上買了一圈野花花環，並在辦公室給她的一張紙的幫助下找到了小約瑟夫的墓地。墓地位於一排像烤箱一樣的墓穴的架子上，每個墓穴都有一扇大理石門，門前上還掛有一張照片。他們都是孩子們的照片，甜美的笑臉，一群小天使的合唱團，現在正在天堂的寶座旁唱歌。陽光照在他們身上，高高的柏樹在微風中輕輕地唱歌。在這裡那裡，有一個母親正在修理掛在她寶寶臉前的油燈，並聆聽那聲音並未消逝，而是在她靈魂中發聲。</p>
  <p>Roma hung her wreath on Joseph's vault and turned away. Going
  out of the gates she met a great concourse of people. At their
  head was a Capuchin carrying a black wooden cross with sponge,
  spear, hammer and nails attached. Two boys in blue and white
  carried candles by his side. The crowd behind were of the
  poorest, chiefly women and girls with shawls and handkerchiefs on
  their heads. It was Friday, and they were going to the Church of
  San Lorenzo to make the procession of the Stations of the Cross.
  Scarcely knowing why she did so, Roma followed them.</p>
  <p>
  `羅馬將花環掛在約瑟夫的墳墓上，然後走開。她走出大門，遇見了大量的人群。領頭的是一位卡布奇諾修道士，他手中握有一把木質的黑色十字架，十字架上附著海綿、長矛、錘子和釘子。其旁邊有兩個身穿藍白色服裝的男孩子，他們各自手持蠟燭。跟在後面的人群都是最窮苦的人，主要是把披肩和手帕戴在頭上的女人和女孩。那天是星期五，他們正在去聖羅倫佐教堂進行十字架站路的過程。羅馬幾乎不知道為何會這麼做，但她跟隨了他們。`</p>
  <p>The people filled the Basilica. Their devotion was deep and
  touching. As they followed the friar from station to station they
  sang in monotonous tones the strophes of the <i>Stabat
  Mater</i>.</p>
  <p>
  人們擠滿了大教堂。他們的虔誠深深地打動人心。當他們跟隨修士從一站到另一站的時候，他們以單調的音調唱起了《悲傷母親》的詩節。</p>
  <p>"Ah, Mother, fountain of love, make me feel the strength of
  sorrow that I may mourn with thee."</p>
  <p>"啊，母親，愛的源泉，讓我感受悲傷的力量，以便我可以和你一起哀悼。"</p>
  <p>Their prayer seemed hardly needful. They were the starving
  wives and daughters of men in prison, men in hospital, and
  reserve soldiers. Poor wrecks on life's shore, thrown up by the
  tide, they had turned to religion for consolation, and were
  sending up their cry to God.</p>
  <p>
  他們的禱告似乎沒有必要。他們是被囚禁的男人、醫院的病人和後備士兵的飢餓的妻子和女兒。他們是生活之海潮流推上岸的破碎生命，他們轉向宗教尋求慰藉，並把他們的呼喊送上給上帝。</p>
  <p>When they had finished their course and ended their canticles
  of grief they gathered about the pulpit and the Capuchin got up
  to preach. He was a bearded man with a face full of light, almost
  of frenzy, and a cross and a rosary hung<span class=
  "x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00345" title="271"><a id=
  "Page_271" title="271"></a></span> from his girdle. He spoke of
  their poverty, their lost ones, their privations, of the dark
  hour they were passing through, and of answers to prayer in
  political troubles. During this time the silence was breathless;
  but when he told them that God had sent their sufferings upon
  them for their sins, that they must confess their sins, in order
  that their holy mother, the Church, might save them from their
  sins, there was a deep hum in the air like the reverberation in a
  great shell.</p>
  <p>
  當他們完成課程並結束他們的悲傷聖歌後，他們聚集在講臺周圍，原教旨修道會神父起身來講道。他是一位面帶光芒，幾近狂熱的大鬍子男子，腰帶上掛著十字架和念珠。他談到他們的貧窮，他們失去的人，他們的剝奪，還有他們正在經歷的黑暗時刻，以及宗教糾紛中的祈禱回應。在這期間，寂靜得令人窒息；但當他告訴他們上帝因為他們的罪過而將痛苦加諸於他們，他們必須認罪，以便他們的聖母教會可以救他們擺脫罪孽時，空氣中產生了一陣深沉的嗡嗡聲，就像在大的貝殼中的迴響。</p>
  <p>A line of confessional boxes stood in each of the church
  aisles, and as the preacher described the sorrows of the man-God,
  His passion, His agony, His blood, the women and girls, weeping
  audibly, got up one by one and went over to confess. No sooner
  had one of them arisen than another took her place, and each as
  she rose to her feet looked calm and comforted.</p>
  <p>
  "教堂的每一側走道都排列著一排告解箱，當牧師描繪著人類之神的悲傷，他的苦難，他的痛苦，他的血液時，婦女和女孩們哭聲高漲，她們陸續起身去做告解。一個人剛起身，另一個就坐了下來，她們每一個在起身的那一刻都看起來平靜且得到安慰。"</p>
  <p>The emotion of the moment was swelling over Roma like a flood.
  If she could unburden her heart like that! If she could cast off
  all the trouble of her days and nights of pain! One of the
  confessional boxes had a penitential rod protruding from it, and
  going past the front of it she had seen the face of a priest. It
  was a soft, kindly, human face. She had seen it before
  somewhere—perhaps in the Pope's procession.</p>
  <p>
  那刻的情緒像洪水一般湧向羅馬。如果她也能這樣釋放心中的重擔！如果她能擺脫日日夜夜的疼痛！其中一個告解箱有一根懺悔棒伸出，當她經過它的正面時，她看到了一位神父的臉。那是一張溫和、友善、充滿人性的臉。她似乎在哪裡見過它——也許是在教皇的遊行中。</p>
  <p>At that moment a poor girl with a handkerchief on her head,
  who had knelt down crying, was getting up with shining eyes. Roma
  was shaken by violent tremors. An overpowering desire had come
  upon her to confess. For a moment she held on to a chair, lest
  she should fall to the floor. Then by a sudden impulse, in a kind
  of delirium, scarcely knowing what she was doing until it was
  done, she flung herself in the place the girl had risen from, and
  with a palpitating heart said in a tremulous voice through the
  little brass grating:</p>
  <p>
  在那一刻，一個頭上扎著手帕的窮女孩跪下哭泣，現在她的眼中閃耀著光芒，正在起身。羅馬被劇烈的震動搖撼。她突然有了強烈的懺悔的慾望。她短暫地抓住一把椅子，以免她跌落地板。然後受到一種突然的衝動，一種種狂熱的態度，幾乎不知道她在做什麼，直到事情完成，她投入到女孩起身的地方，並且用顫抖的聲音透過小銅格窗戶，悸動的心說道。</p>
  <p>"Father, I am a great sinner—hear me, hear me!"</p>
  <p>"父親，我是一個大罪人 — 聽我，聽我！"</p>
  <p>The measured breathing inside the confessional was arrested,
  and the peaceful face of the priest looked out at the hectic
  cheeks and blazing eyes.</p>
  <p>"在告解室內有節奏的呼吸突然停止，僧侶的平靜臉龐看著那張潮紅且眼神熾烈的臉。"</p>
  <p>"Wait, my daughter, do not agitate yourself. Say the
  Confiteor."</p>
  <p>"等一等，我的女兒，不要激動。說一下我承認說詞。"</p>
  <p>She tried to speak, but her words were hardly audible or
  coherent.</p>
  <p>她試圖說話，但她的話幾乎聽不清楚也語無倫次。</p>
  <p>"I confess ... I confess ... I cannot, Father."</p>
  <p>"我承認...我承認...我不能,父親。"</p>
  <p>A pinch of snuff dropped from the old man's fingers.</p>
  <p>一撮鼻菸從老人的手指間掉了下來。</p>
  <p>"Are you not a Christian?"<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno"
  id="pgepubid00346" title="272"><a id="Page_272" title=
  "272"></a></span></p>
  <p>"你不是基督徒嗎？"</p>
  <p>"I have not been baptized, but I was educated in a convent,
  and...."</p>
  <p>「我還未接受過洗禮，但我曾在修道院接受教育，並且....」</p>
  <p>"Then I cannot hear your confession. Baptism is the door of
  the Church, and without it...."</p>
  <p>"那我就不能聽你的告解。洗禮是教會的門，沒有它...."</p>
  <p>"But I am in great trouble. For Our Lady's sake, listen to me.
  Oh, listen to me, Father, only listen to me."</p>
  <p>"但我正身處深深的困境中。為了聖母的緣故，請聽我說。哦，聽我說吧，父親，只需聽我說。"</p>
  <p>Although accustomed to the sufferings of the human heart, a
  measureless pity came over the old priest, and he said in a kind
  and tender voice:</p>
  <p>"儘管習慣於人心的苦難，無量的憐憫卻湧上了老祭司的心頭，他以一種和藹而溫柔的聲音說道："</p>
  <p>"Go on, my daughter. I cannot give you absolution, for you are
  not a child of the Church; but I am an old man, and if I can help
  your poor soul to bear its burden, God forbid that I should turn
  you away."</p>
  <p>
  "繼續吧，我的女兒。我無法為你贖罪，因為你不是教會的孩子；但我是一個老人，如果我可以幫助你的可憐靈魂承受它的負擔，上帝禁止我把你趕走。"</p>
  <p>In a torrent of hot words Roma poured out her trouble, hiding
  nothing, extenuating nothing, and naming and blaming no one. At
  length the throbbing breath and quivering voice died down, and
  there was a moment's silence, in which the dull rumble in the
  church seemed to come from far away. Then the voice behind the
  grating said in tender tones:</p>
  <p>
  "羅馬以熱情澎湃的語氣把自己的困境傾吐出來，無所遁藏，無所訛飾，也不指責任何人。最終她的呼吸顫抖，聲音逐漸消歇，當下一刻的安靜到來，教堂裡的沉悶的隆鳴聲似乎來自遠方。然後，格子門後的聲音以溫柔的語調說道："</p>
  <p>"My daughter, you have committed no sin in this case and have
  nothing to repent of. That you should be troubled by scruples
  shows that your soul is pure and that you are living in communion
  with God. Your bodily health is reduced by nervousness and
  anxiety, and it is natural that you should imagine that you have
  sinned where you have not sinned. That is the sweet grace of most
  women, but how few men! What sin there has been is not yours;
  therefore go home, and God comfort you."</p>
  <p>
  "我的女兒，你在這種情況下並未犯任何罪過，也無需懺悔。你因良心責備而煩悶，這顯示你的靈魂純潔，你與上帝保持著聯結。你的身體狀況因神經緊張和焦慮而下降，這使你自然會想象到你在未犯罪的地方犯了罪。這是大多數女性，但少數男性的甜蜜恩典！可能存在的罪並非你所犯的；因此回家吧，願神安慰你。"</p>
  <p>"But, dear Father ... it is so good of you, but have you
  forgotten...."</p>
  <p>"但是，親愛的父親...你真好，但是你有沒有忘記...."</p>
  <p>"Your husband? No! Whether you should tell him it is beyond my
  power to say. In itself I should be against it, for why should
  you disturb his conscience and endanger the peace of a family?
  Your scruples about Nature coming to convict you, being without
  grounds of reason, are temptations of the devil and should be put
  behind your back. But that your marriage was a religious one
  only, that the other person (you did right not to name him, my
  child) may use that circumstance to separate you, and that your
  confession to your husband, if it came too late, would come
  prejudiced and worse than in vain, these are facts that make it
  difficult to advise you for your safety and peace of mind. Let me
  consult some one wiser than myself. Let me, perhaps, take your
  secret to a<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00347"
  title="273"><a id="Page_273" title="273"></a></span> high place,
  a kindly ear, a saintly heart, a venerable and holy head. Come
  again, or leave me your name if you will, and if that holy person
  has anything to say you shall hear of it. Meantime go home in
  peace and content, my daughter, and may God bring you into His
  true fold at last."</p>
  <p>
  "您的丈夫？不！是否應該告訴他，這超出了我的能力範圍。本質上，我反對這種做法，因為為什麼要煽動他的良心，並危害家庭的和平？您擔憂自然會來指控您的不安，沒有理性的根據，是惡魔的誘惑，應該被您拒於門外。但您的婚姻只是宗教的一種，其他人（你做得對，我的孩子，沒有提到他的名字）可能會利用這一情況來與你分開，而你對丈夫的坦白，如果來得太遲，會帶有偏見，比徒勞無功還糟糕，這些事實使我難以為你的安全和內心的寧靜提出建議。讓我去請教比我更聰明的人。也許，讓我將您的秘密帶到一個高地，一個慈祥的耳朵，一顆神聖的心，一個尊嚴和聖潔的頭顱。再來一次，或者留下您的名字，如果那位神聖的人有什麼要說的，您將會得知。與此同時，平靜和滿足地回家，我女兒，並願上帝最終將你帶入他的真正羊圈。"</p>
  <p>When Roma got up from the grating of the confessional she felt
  like one who had passed through a great sickness and was now
  better. Her whole being was going through a miraculous
  convalescence. A great weight had been lifted off; she was
  renewed as with a new soul and her very body felt light as
  air.</p>
  <p>
  當羅馬從告解室的鐵門走出來時，她感覺就像一個經歷了重病後現在恢復過來的人。她的整個存在正在經歷一個奇跡的康復。一種巨大的壓力已經被解除；她似乎換了一個新的靈魂，甚至她的身體也感覺輕如鴻毛。</p>
  <p>The preacher was still preaching in his tremulous tones, and
  the women and girls were still crying, as Roma passed out of the
  church, but now she heard all as in a dream. It was not until she
  reached the portico, and a blind beggar rattled his can in her
  face, that the spell was broken, so sudden and mysterious was the
  transition when she came back from heaven to earth.</p>
  <p>
  那位傳道者仍在用他顫抖的聲調說教，女人和女孩們仍在哭泣，當羅馬離開教堂時，她像夢一樣聽到了所有這些。直到她走到門廊，一個瞎眼的乞丐在她面前搖晃著罐子，她才打破了魔咒，當她從天堂回到地球時，過渡非常突然且神秘。</p>
  <h3 id="pgepubid00348">XII</h3>
  <p>By the first post next morning "Sister Angelica" received a
  letter from David Rossi.</p>
  <p>"隔日一早的第一班郵件，'天使姐妹'收到了來自大衛·羅西的一封信。"</p>
  <p style="padding-top:.5em">"Dearest,—Your budget arrived safely
  and brought me great joy and perhaps a little sadness. Apart from
  the pain I always suffer when I think of our poor people, there
  was a little twinge as I read between the lines of your letter.
  Are you not dissimulating some of your happiness to keep up my
  spirits and to prevent me from rushing back to you at all
  hazards? You shall be really happy some day, my dear one. I shall
  hear your silvery laugh again as I did on that glorious day in
  the Campagna. Wait, only wait! We are still young and we shall
  live.</p>
  <p style="padding-top:.5em">"親愛的，你的預算安全地到達，給我帶來了很大的喜悅，
  也許還有一點悲傷。除了我總是因為想到我們可憐的人民而感到痛苦，當我看到你信中的字裡行間，也感到了一絲疼痛。你是否在掩飾一些你的幸福，以保持我的士氣，阻止我不擇手段回到你身邊？有一天你會真正快樂的，我的親愛的。我將再次聽到你那如銀般的笑聲，就像在Campagna那光榮的日子裡一樣。等待，只有等待！我們還年輕，我們將會生活。"</p>
  <p>"Pray for me, my heart, that what my hand is doing may not be
  done amiss. I am working day and night. Meetings, committees,
  correspondence early and late. A great scheme is afoot, dearest,
  and you shall hear all about it presently. I am proud that I
  judged rightly of the moral grandeur of your nature, and that it
  is possible to tell you everything.</p>
  <p>
  "為我祈禱吧，我的心肝，希望我手中的工作能夠順利進行。我正在日以繼夜地工作，開會、參與委員會、早晚忙於通信。親愛的，一個大計劃正在進行中，很快你就會瞭解到這一切。我很自豪，我正確地判斷了你的道德品格的偉大性，並且有可能將一切都告訴你。"</p>
  <p>"We have elected a centre of action and mapped out our
  organisation. Everybody agrees with me on the necessity for
  united action. Europe seems to be ready for a
  complete<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00349"
  title="274"><a id="Page_274" title="274"></a></span> change, but
  the first great act must be done in Rome. I find encouragement
  everywhere. The brotherly union of the peoples is going on. A
  power stronger than brute force is sweeping through the
  world.</p>
  <p>"我們已選出行動中心並規劃了我們的組織。 每個人都同意我關於需要統一行動的看法。 歐洲
  似乎準備好進行全面的變革，但是首次重大的行動必須在羅馬進行。我在所有地方都找到了鼓勵。各國人民的兄弟聯盟正在進行中。一種比蠻力更強大的力量正在橫掃世界。"</p>
  <p>"Poor Bruno! You are no doubt right that pressure is being put
  upon him to betray me. It is not for myself only that I am
  troubled. It would be a lasting grief to me if his mind were
  poisoned. Charles Minghelli being in prison in the disguise of a
  prisoner means that anything may happen. When the man came to me
  after his dismissal in London, it was to ask help to assassinate
  the Baron. I refused it, and he went over to the other side. The
  secret tribunal in which cases are prepared for public trial is a
  hellish machine for cruelty and injustice. It has been abolished
  in nearly every other civilised country, but the courts and jails
  of our beautiful Italy continue to be the scene of plots in which
  helpless unfortunates are terrorised by expedients which leave
  not a trace of crime. A prisoner is no longer a man, but a human
  agent to incriminate others. His soul is corrupted, and a price
  is put upon treachery. See Bruno yourself if you can, and save
  him from himself and the people whose only occupation in life is
  to secure convictions.</p>
  <p>
  "可憐的布魯諾！毫無疑問，他正被迫背叛我。我所煩憂的不僅是我自己。如果他的心被腐化，我將會永遠痛苦。查理斯·明赫利在監獄中偽裝成囚犯，意味著任何事情都有可能發生。當這個人在倫敦被解僱後來找我，是想請求幫助刺殺男爵。我拒絕了他，他就投向了對立面。秘密審判，是為公眾審判準備案件的惡魔機器，充斥著殘忍和不公。這種制度在幾乎所有其他文明國家中都已被撤銷，但我們美麗的義大利法庭和監獄仍然是陰謀的舞臺，在這裡無助的不幸者被威脅恐嚇，並且不會留下任何犯罪的痕跡。囚犯不再是一個人，而變成了一個用來指控他人的工具。他的靈魂被腐蝕，並且出賣的行為也有了價值。如果你可以的話，去見一見布魯諾吧，並從他自己和那些以取得定罪為生的人那裡拯救他。”</p>
  <p>"And now, as to your friend. Comfort her. The poor girl is no
  more guilty than if a traction engine had run over her or a wild
  beast had broken on her out of his cage. She must not torture
  herself any longer. It is not right, it is not good. Our body is
  not the only part of use that is subject to diseases, and you
  must save her from a disease of the soul.</p>
  <p>
  "現在，關於你的朋友。要安慰她。這個可憐的女孩並無罪過，就像她被拖拉機輾過或者被野獸逃出籠子襲擊一樣。她不應該再折磨自己了。這不對，這不好。我們的身體並非我們唯一會感染疾病的部分，你必須從靈魂的疾病中拯救她。"</p>
  <p>"As to whether she should tell her husband, I can have but one
  opinion. I say, Yes, by all means. In the court of conscience the
  sin, where it exists, is not wholly or mainly in the act. That
  has been pardoned in secret as well as in public. God pardoned it
  in David. Christ pardoned it in the woman of Jerusalem. But the
  concealment, the lying and duplicity, these cannot be pardoned
  until they have been confessed.</p>
  <p>"關於她是否應該告訴她的丈夫，我只能有一個觀點。
  我說，是的，無論如何。在良心的法庭上，如果存在，罪並不完全或主要在行為中。那已在秘密和公開中獲得寬恕。上帝在大衛身上寬恕了它。基督在耶路撒冷的女人身上寬恕了它。但是隱瞞、謊言和欺騙，這些在被坦白承認之前不能被寬恕。"</p>
  <p>"Another point, which your pure mind, dearest, has never
  thought of. There is the other man. Think of the power he holds
  over your friend. If he still wishes to possess her in spite of
  herself, he may intimidate her, he may threaten to reveal all to
  her husband. This would make her miserable, and perhaps in the
  long run, her will being broken, it might even make her yield. Or
  the man may really tell her husband<span class=
  "x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00350" title="275"><a id=
  "Page_275" title="275"></a></span> in order to insult and outrage
  both of them. <i>If he does so, where is she? Is her husband to
  believe her story then?</i></p>
  <p>
  "另外一點，你那純真的心靈，親愛的，從未想過。那就是那個其他的男人。想想他對你的朋友擁有的權力。如果他仍然希望擁有她，即使她自己不願意，他可能會威脅她，可能會威脅要向她的丈夫揭示一切。這將使她痛苦不堪，或許從長遠來看，她的意志被摧毀，甚至可能使她屈服。或者男人真的會告訴她的丈夫，以侮辱並激怒他們兩人。如果他這麼做了，她該怎麼辦？她的丈夫會相信她的故事嗎？</p>
  <p>"To meet these dangers let her speak out now. Let her trust
  her husband's love and tell him everything. If he is a man he
  will think, 'Only her purity has prompted her to tell me,' and he
  will love her more than ever. Some momentary spasm he may feel.
  Every man wishes to believe that the flower he plucks is
  flawless. But his higher nature will conquer his vanity and he
  will say, 'She loves me, I love her, she is innocent, and if any
  blow is to be struck at her it must go through me.'</p>
  <p>
  "為了應對這些危險，讓她現在開口說話。讓她信任她丈夫的愛，告訴他一切。如果他是個男人，他會認為，'只有她的純潔驅使她告訴我，'他將比以往更愛她。他可能會感到瞬間的抽痛。每個男人都希望相信他所摘的花是完美無瑕的。但他的高尚品性將克服他的虛榮，他會說，'她愛我，我愛她，她是無辜的，如果有人要對她出手，那麼必須先經過我。'"</p>
  <p>"My love to you, dearest. Your friend must be a true woman,
  and it was very sweet of you to be so tender with her. It was
  noble of you to be severe with her too, and to make her go
  through purgatorial fires. That is what good women always do with
  the injured of their own sex. It is a kind of pledge and badge of
  their purity, and it is a safeguard and shield, whatever the
  unthinking may say. I love you for your severity to the poor
  soiled dove, my dear one, just as much as I love you for your
  tenderness. It shows me how rightly I judged the moral elevation
  of your soul, your impeccability, your spirit of fire and heart
  of gold. Until we meet again, my darling,</p>
  <p>
  "我對你的愛，最親愛的。你的朋友一定是個真正的女性，你能對她如此溫柔真的很甜蜜。你能對她嚴厲，讓她接受磨難的考驗也很偉大。這就是好女人對待同性受害者時常做的事情。這是她們純潔的一種承諾和象徵，無論那些無思考的人如何評論，這是一種保護和盾牌。親愛的，我因你對那可憐的玷污鴿子的嚴厲而愛你，就像我因你的溫柔而愛你一樣。這讓我看見我是多麼正確地判斷了你靈魂的道德高度，你的無可挑剔，你的火一樣的精神和金子般的心。親愛的，等我們再次見面，"</p>
  <p style="text-align:right; margin-top:-1em;">D. R."</p>
  <p style="text-align:right; margin-top:-1em;">"D. R." in
  Traditional Chinese is "D. R."</p>
  <h3 id="pgepubid00351">XIII</h3>
  <p>"<span class="smcap">My Dear David Rossi</span>,—All day long
  I've been carrying your letter round like a reliquary, taking a
  peep at it in cabs, and even, when I dare, in omnibuses and the
  streets.</p>
  <p>"親愛的大衛·羅西， -
  我一整天都帶著你的信，就像把它當作聖物般帶在我身邊，我在計程車上、公共汽車裡，甚至當我敢的時候，在街上偷看它。"</p>
  <p>"What you say about Bruno has put me in a fever, and I have
  written to the Director-General for permission to visit the
  prison. Even Lawyer Napoleon is of opinion that Bruno is being
  made a victim of that secret inquisition. No Holy Inquisition was
  ever more unscrupulous. Lawyer N. says the authorities in Italy
  have inherited the traditions of a bad régime. To do evil to
  prevent others from doing it is horrible. But in this case it is
  doing evil to prevent others from doing good. I am satisfied that
  Bruno is being tempted to betray you. If I could only take his
  place! <i>Would their plots have any effect upon me</i>? I should
  die first.</p>
  <p>
  你說的關於布魯諾的事使我心煩意亂，我已經寫信給總監請求訪問監獄。即使是律師拿破崙也認為布魯諾正在成為那種秘密審查的受害者。沒有任何一個聖教審判曾經如此肆無忌憚。律師N說，義大利的當局已經繼承了一個壞制度的傳統。為了防止他人做壞事而做壞事是可怕的。但在這種情況下，它是在防止他人做好事時做壞事。我確定布魯諾正被誘惑背叛你。如果我能取代他的位置！那麼，他們的陰謀會對我產生什麼影響呢？我寧願先死。</p>
  <p>"And now about my friend. I can hardly hold my pen when I
  write of her. What you say is so good, so noble. I<span class=
  "x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00352" title="276"><a id=
  "Page_276" title="276"></a></span> might have known what you
  would think, and yet....</p>
  <p>"現在談到我的朋友，當我提到她時，我都幾乎無法握住筆。
  你所說的如此美好，如此高尚。我原本應該早知道你會如此想的，然而...."</p>
  <p>"Dearest, how can I go on? Can't you divine what I wish to
  tell you? Your letter compels me to confess. Come what may, I can
  hold off no longer. Didn't you guess who my poor friend was? I
  thought you would remember our former correspondence when you
  pretended to love somebody else. You haven't thought of it
  apparently, and that is only another proof—a bitter sweet one
  this time—of your love and trust. You put me so high that you
  never imagined that I could be speaking of myself. I was, and my
  poor friend is my poor self.</p>
  <p>"親愛的，我如何能繼續下去？你難道不能猜到我想告訴你什麼？
  你的信讓我不得不承認。無論如何，我不能再拖延了。你難道沒有猜到我那可憐的朋友是誰嗎？我以為你會想起我們之前的通信，當時你假裝愛著別人。你顯然沒有想到，這只是你的愛與信任的另一個證明—a
  bitter sweet one this
  time—你把我放得如此之高，以至於你從未想過我可能在說自己。我就是在談論我自己，我的可憐的朋友就是我可憐的自己。”</p>
  <p>"It has made me suffer all along to see what a pedestal of
  purity you placed me on. The letters you wrote before you told me
  you loved me, when you were holding off, made me ashamed because
  I knew I was not worthy. More than once when you spoke of me as
  so good, I couldn't look into your eyes. I felt an impulse to
  cry, 'No, no, no,' and to smirch the picture you were painting.
  Yet how could I do it? What woman who loves a man can break the
  idol in his heart? She can only struggle to lift herself up to
  it. That was what I tried to do, and it is not my fault that it
  is not done.</p>
  <p>
  "看到你把我放在如此純潔的基座上，一直讓我痛苦。你在告訴我你愛我之前寫的信，當你在猶豫不決的時候，讓我感到羞愧，因為我知道我不配。不止一次，當你把我形容為如此善良，我無法看進你的眼睛。我有衝動大喊，'不，不，不'，並弄髒你正在描繪的形象。然而我怎麼能做到呢？愛一個男人的女人怎麼可能在他心中打碎偶像呢？她只能努力提升自己去達到它。這就是我試圖去做的，並且這不是我的錯，我沒能做到。"</p>
  <p>"I have been much to blame. There were moments when duty
  should have made me speak. One such moment was before we married.
  Do you remember that I tried to tell you something? You were
  kind, and you would not listen. 'The past is past,' you said, and
  I was only too happy to gloss it over. You didn't know what I
  wished to say, or you would not have silenced me. I knew, and I
  have suffered ever since. I <i>had</i> to speak, and you see how
  I have spoken. And now I feel as if I had tricked you. I have got
  you to commit yourself to opinions and to a line of conduct.
  Forgive me! I will not hold you to anything. Take it all back,
  and I shall have no right to complain.</p>
  <p>
  "我有很多過錯。有些時刻我應該選擇坦白，這樣一個時刻就在我們結婚前。你還記得我曾試圖告訴你一些事情嗎？你很善良，你不願意聽。你說，'過去的就讓它過去吧，'我願意這樣輕描淡寫。你不知道我想說什麼，否則你就不會讓我閉嘴。我知道，從那以後我一直在受苦。我必須說出來，你看我是怎麼說的。現在我感覺好像我欺騙了你。我使你陷入了自己的觀點和行為方式。原諒我！我不會讓你承擔任何事情。都收回去，我沒有任何權利抱怨。”</p>
  <p>"Besides, there are features in my own case which I did not
  present to you in my friend's. One of them was the fear of being
  found out. Dearest, I must not shield myself behind the sweet
  excuse you find for me. I <i>did</i> think of the other man. It
  wasn't that I was afraid that he would intimidate me, and so
  corrupt my love. Not all the tyrannies of the world could do that
  now. But if from revenge or a desire to wrest me away from you by
  making you cast me off he told you his story before I had told
  you mine! That was a day-long and night-long terror, and now I
  confess it lest you<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id=
  "pgepubid00353" title="277"><a id="Page_277" title=
  "277"></a></span> should think me better than I am.</p>
  <p>
  "此外，我自己的情況中也有一些特點，我並未在朋友的例子中向你展示。其中之一就是害怕被人發現真相。親愛的，我不能背後使用你為我找到的甜蜜理由來掩護自己。我確實考慮過了那個其他的男人。我並不是害怕他會恐嚇我，從而腐蝕我的愛情。現在世界上所有的暴政都無法做到這一點。但如果出於報復或者想讓你棄我而去，他先把他的故事告訴你，而我還沒有告訴你我的事！那是一個日日夜夜的恐懼，現在我必須承認，以免你把我想得比我實際好。"</p>
  <p>"Another thing you did not know. Dearest, I would give my life
  to spare you the explanation, but I must tell you everything. You
  know who the man is, and it is true before God that he alone was
  to blame. But my own fault came afterwards. Instead of cutting
  him off, I continued to be on good terms with him, to take the
  income he allowed me from my father's estate, and even to think
  of him as my future husband. And when your speech in the piazza
  seemed to endanger my prospects I set out to destroy you.</p>
  <p>
  "你還有一件事不知道。我最親愛的，我願意用我的生命來避免這次解釋，但我必須告訴你全部的事情。你知道那個男人是誰，而且我在上帝面前誓言，只有他一個人該受到責備。但後來，我自己的錯誤才出現。我不但沒有與他劃清界限，反而繼續跟他保持良好關係，接受他允許我從父親的遺產中得到的收入，甚至還想把他當作我的未來丈夫。而當你在廣場的演說似乎威脅到我的前程時，我便開始試圖摧毀你。</p>
  <p>"It is terrible. How can I tell you and not die of shame? Now
  you know how much I deceived you, and the infamy of my purpose
  makes me afraid to ask for pardon. To think that I was no better
  than a Delilah when I met you first! But Heaven stepped in and
  saved you. How you worked upon me! First, you re-created my
  father for me, and I saw him as he really was, and not as I had
  been taught to think of him. Then you gave me my soul, and I saw
  myself. Darling, do not hate me. Your great heart could not be
  capable of a cruelty like that if you knew what I suffered.</p>
  <p>
  "這真是太糟糕了。我該如何告訴你卻不會因羞愧而死呢？現在你知道我有多麼地欺騙你，我的卑鄙行為讓我不敢去求饒。想到我一開始遇見你時，我不過是個底拉般的女人！但天堂介入並救了你。你如何影響我啊！首先，你讓我重新認識了我的父親，我看到了他真正的模樣，而不是我被教導去想像的他。然後你給了我我的靈魂，我看到了自己。親愛的，不要恨我。如果你知道我所遭受的痛苦，你偉大的心將不可能慘無人道的對待我。"</p>
  <p>"Last of all love came, and I wanted to hold on to it. Oh, how
  I wanted to hold on to it! That was how it came about that I went
  on and on without telling you. It was a sort of gambling, a kind
  of delirium. Everything that happened I took as a penance. Come
  poverty, shame, neglect, what matter? It was only wiping out a
  sinful past, and bringing me nearer to you. But when at last he
  who had injured me threatened to injure you <i>through me</i>, I
  was in despair. You could never imagine what mad notions came to
  me then. I even thought of killing myself, to end and cover up
  everything. But no, I could not break your heart like that.
  Besides, the very act would have told you something, and it was
  terrible to think that when I was dead you might find out all
  this pitiful story.</p>
  <p>
  "最後，愛情來臨了，我很想抓住它。哦，我多麼想抓住它！這就是我一直沒有告訴你的原因。這是一種賭博，一種瘋狂。我把所發生的一切都看作是清償過去的罪行。來吧，貧窮，羞辱，忽視，那又如何呢？它只是消除罪惡的過去，並使我更接近你。但當最後那個傷害我的人威脅說要透過我傷害你時，我感到絕望。你永遠無法想像那時我腦海中出現了什麼瘋狂的念頭。我甚至想過要自殺，結束並掩蓋一切。但我不能這樣讓你心碎。此外，這種行為本身就已經告訴你一些事，我無法忍受你在我死後可能會發現這個可悲的故事的想法。"</p>
  <p>"Now you know everything, dearest. I have kept nothing back.
  As you see, I am not only my poor friend, but some one
  worse—myself. Can you forgive me? I dare not ask it. But put me
  out of suspense. Write. Or better still, telegraph. One word—only
  one. It will be enough.</p>
  <p>"現在你知道了所有的事情，我最親愛的。我什麼都沒隱瞞。如你所見，
  我不只是我可憐的朋友，還是某人更差的—我自己。你能原諒我嗎？我不敢問這個問題。但請讓我擺脫痛苦。寫信。或者更好的，發電報。一個字—只有一個。這將足夠。"</p>
  <p>"I would love to send you my love, but to-night I dare not. I
  have loved you from the first, and I can never do anything but
  love you, whatever happens. I think you would forgive me if you
  could realise that I am in the world only to love you, and that
  the worst of my offences comes of loving<span class=
  "x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00354" title="278"><a id=
  "Page_278" title="278"></a></span> you more than reason or honour
  itself. Whatever you do, I am yours, and I can only consecrate my
  life to you.</p>
  <p>
  "我很想把我的愛送給你，但今晚我不敢。從一開始我就愛你，不論發生什麼事，我的愛永遠不會改變。我想如果你能瞭解到我在這個世界上只是為了愛你，那麼你會原諒我，因為我最大的過錯就是愛你超過了理智和榮譽本身。無論你做什麼，我都屬於你，我只能把我的一生奉獻給你。"</p>
  <p>"It is daybreak, and the cross of St. Peter's is hanging
  spectral white above the mists of morning. Is it a symbol of
  hope, I wonder? The dawn is coming up from the south-east. It
  would travel quicker to the north-west if it loved you as much as
  I do. I have been writing this letter over and over again all
  night long. Do you remember the letter you made me burn, the one
  containing all your secrets? Here is a letter containing mine—but
  how much meaner and more perilous! Your poor unhappy girl,</p>
  <p>
  "天亮了，聖彼得的十字架在晨霧中幽白如鬼魅。我在想，它是否象徵著希望呢？黎明從東南方升起。如果它像我一樣深愛著你，它應該會更快地向西北行進。我整夜不停地重寫這封信。你還記得你讓我燒掉的那封信嗎？那是你所有秘密的信件。而這裡有一封包含我所有秘密的信——但是它顯得如此卑微，如此危險！你清苦不堪的女孩，"</p>
  <p style="text-align:right; margin-top:-1em;"><span class=
  "smcap">Roma</span>."</p>
  <p style="text-align:right; margin-top:-1em;">"羅馬"</p>
  <h3 id="pgepubid00355">XIV</h3>
  <p>Next day Roma removed into her new quarters. A few trunks
  containing her personal belongings, the picture of her father and
  Elena's Madonna, were all she took with her. A broker glanced at
  the rest of her goods and gave a price for the lot. Most of the
  plaster casts in the studio were broken up and carted away. The
  fountain, being of marble, had to be put in a dark cellar under
  the lodge of the old Garibaldian. Only one part of it was carried
  upstairs. This was the mould for the bust of Rossi and the block
  of stone for the head of Christ.</p>
  <p>
  "第二天，羅馬搬到了她的新住所。她只帶走了一些裝著她個人物品的行李箱，她父親的照片和伊萊娜的馬利亞像。一個經紀人看了看她剩下的物品，給出了一個價格。工作室裡的大部分石膏像都被拆散並運走了。由於噴泉是由大理石製成的，必須放在老加里波第的小屋下的一個黑暗的地窖裡。只有它的一個部分被搬到了樓上。這就是羅西胸像的模具和基督頭像的石塊。"</p>
  <p>Except for her dog, Roma went alone to the Piazza Navona,
  Felice having returned to the Baron and Natalina being dismissed.
  The old woman was to clean and cook for her and Roma was to shop
  for herself. It didn't take the neighbours long to sum up the
  situation. She was Rossi's wife. They began to call her
  Signora.</p>
  <p>
  除了她的狗，羅馬獨自去了納沃納廣場，費利斯已經回到男爵那裡，並解僱了娜塔麗娜。這個老女人要替她清潔和烹飪，羅馬要自己購物。鄰居沒花多久就整理出了情況。她是羅西的妻子。他們開始叫她夫人。</p>
  <p>Coming to live in Rossi's home was a sweet experience. The
  room seemed to be full of his presence. The sitting-room with its
  piano, its phonograph, and its portraits brought back the very
  tones of his voice. The bedroom was at first a sanctuary, and she
  could not bring herself to occupy it until she had set upon the
  little Madonna. Then it became a bower, and to sleep in it
  brought a tingling sense which she had never felt before.</p>
  <p>
  `來到羅西的家中生活，是一種甜蜜的體驗。房間似乎充滿了他的存在。帶著鋼琴、唱片機和人像的起居室，彷彿回憶起他的聲音。起初，臥室是一個聖殿，她無法使自己住進去，直到她在小瑪利亞像上設置了一些物品。然後它成為了一個花園，睡在裡面帶來了她從未有過的刺激感。`</p>
  <p>Living in the midst of Rossi's surroundings, she felt as if
  she were discovering something new about him every minute. His
  squirrels on the roof made her think of him as a boy, and his
  birds, which were nesting, and therefore singing<span class=
  "x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00356" title="279"><a id=
  "Page_279" title="279"></a></span> from their little swelling
  throats the whole day long, made her thrill and think of both of
  them. His presents from other women were a source of almost
  feverish interest. Some came from England and America, and were
  sent by women who had never even seen his face. They made her
  happy, they made her proud, they made her jealous.</p>
  <p>
  住在羅西的環境中，她感覺像是每分鐘都在發現他的新事物。他屋頂上的松鼠讓她想到他小時候，他的鳥兒們正在築巢，因此整天都從他們那小小的脖子裡嘹亮地唱著歌，這讓她感到興奮，讓她想到他們倆。他從其他女性那裡收到的禮物引起了她近乎狂熱的興趣。有些禮物來自英格蘭和美國，是從未見過他面容的女性送的。這些禮物讓她感到幸福，讓她感到驕傲，也讓她嫉妒。</p>
  <p>It was Rossi, Rossi, always Rossi! Every night on going to bed
  in her poor quarters her last thought was a love-prayer in the
  darkness, very simple and foolish and childlike, that he would
  love her always, whatever she was, and whatever the world might
  say or evil men might do.</p>
  <p>
  那是羅西，總是羅西！每個晚上，當她在自己的簡陋房間裡上床睡覺時，她的最後一個想法是在黑暗中的一個愛的祈禱，非常簡單、愚蠢和孩子氣，希望他會永遠愛她，無論她是什麼，無論世界會怎麼說或邪惡的人會做什麼。</p>
  <p>This mood lasted for a week and then it began to break. At the
  back of her happiness there lay anxiety about her letter. She
  counted up the hours since she posted it, and reckoned the time
  it would take to receive a reply. If Rossi telegraphed she might
  hear from him in three days. She did not hear.</p>
  <p>
  `這種心情持續了一週，然後開始破裂。在她的幸福背後，她對信件感到焦慮。她數著自己寄出信件後的小時數，並估算接收回覆的時間。如果羅西發電報，她可能在三天內收到他的消息。但她卻一直聽不到任何消息。`</p>
  <p>"He thinks it better to write," she told herself. Of course he
  would write immediately, and in five days she would receive his
  reply. On the fifth day she called on the porter at the convent.
  He had nothing for "Sister Angelica."</p>
  <p>
  "他認為寫信會更好，"她對自己說。他當然會立刻寫信，而她五天後就可以收到他的回信。第五天，她找到修道院的門衛。但是他並沒有給"安吉麗卡修女"的東西。</p>
  <p>"There must be snow on the Alps, and therefore the mails are
  delayed," she thought, and she went down to Piale's, where they
  post up telegrams. There <i>was</i> snow in Switzerland. It was
  just as she imagined, and her letter would be delivered in the
  morning. It was not delivered in the morning.</p>
  <p>
  "在阿爾卑斯山一定下了雪，所以郵件延遲了，"她想著，然後下到Piale的地方，那裡他們有張貼電報的地方。瑞士的確下雪了。情況正如她想像的，她的信將在早晨送達。但是，在早晨，並未送達。</p>
  <p>"How stupid of me! It would be Sunday when my letter reached
  London." She had not counted on the postal arrangements of the
  English Sabbath. One day more, only one, and she would hear from
  Rossi and be happy.</p>
  <p>
  “我真是太笨了！我的信抵達倫敦的時候，會是星期天。”她沒有考慮到英國安息日的郵政安排。再多一天，只需要一天，她就會收到羅西的回信，然後她就會很快樂。</p>
  <p>But one day went by, then another and another, and still no
  letter came. Her big heart began to fail and the rainbow in the
  sky of her life to pale away. The singing of the birds on the
  roof pained her now. How could they crack their little throats
  like that? It was raining and the sky was dark.</p>
  <p>`但一天又一天過去了，然後又是另一天，然後又是另一天，仍然沒有信來。
  她巨大的心開始失落，生活天空中的彩虹逐漸消失。現在，屋頂上小鳥的歌唱使她感到痛苦。他們怎麼能像那樣破壞他們細小的喉嚨呢？正在下雨，天空很暗。`</p>
  <p>Then the Garibaldian and his old wife came upstairs with
  scared looks and with papers in their hands. They were summoned
  to give evidence at Bruno's trial. It was to take place in three
  days.</p>
  <p>然後，Garibaldian
  和他的老婦人帶著驚恐的樣子，手上拿著文件走上樓來。他們被傳喚去出席布魯諾的審判。審判將在三天後進行。</p>
  <p>"Well, I'm deaf, praise the saints! and they can't make much
  of me," said the old woman.<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id=
  "pgepubid00357" title="280"><a id="Page_280" title=
  "280"></a></span></p>
  <p>"嗯，我是個聾子，感謝聖人！他們不能對我做太多事，"老婦人說。</p>
  <p>Roma put on her simple black straw hat with a quill through it
  and set off for the office of the lawyer, Napoleon Fuselli.</p>
  <p>羅馬戴上她那頂樸素的黑色草帽，上面插著一根羽毛，然後她就前往律師拿破崙·弗塞利的辦公室。</p>
  <p>"Just writing to you, dear lady," said the great man, dropping
  back in his chair. "Sorry to say my labour has been in vain. It
  is useless to go further. Our man has confessed."</p>
  <p>
  "只是寫信給您，親愛的女士，"偉大的男人說，倒在椅子上。"很遺憾，我的努力白白浪費了。再繼續下去已經沒有意義。我們的人已經招供了。"</p>
  <p>"Confessed?" Roma clutched at the lapel of her coat.</p>
  <p>"承認？" 羅馬緊抓著她大衣的翻領。</p>
  <p>"Confessed, and denounced his accomplices."</p>
  <p>"承認了罪行，並揭發了他的同謀者。"</p>
  <p>"His accomplices?"</p>
  <p>"他的同謀者？"</p>
  <p>"Rossi in particular, whom he has implicated in a serious
  conspiracy."</p>
  <p>"他特別提到了羅西，他被牽涉到了一場嚴重的陰謀。"</p>
  <p>"What conspiracy?"</p>
  <p>"什麼陰謀？"</p>
  <p>"That is not yet disclosed. We shall hear all about it the day
  after to-morrow."</p>
  <p>"那還未揭曉。我們將在後天聽到所有關於它的事情。"</p>
  <p>"But why? With what object?"</p>
  <p>"但為什麼？目的是什麼？"</p>
  <p>"Pardon! Apparently they have promised the clemency of the
  court, and hence in one sense our object is achieved. It is
  hardly necessary to defend the man. The authorities will see to
  that for us."</p>
  <p>
  "抱歉！顯然他們已經承諾法庭的寬恕，因此在某種意義上來說，我們的目標已經達成。硬要為這個人辯護幾乎變得不必要。有關當局會替我們處理這些事情。"</p>
  <p>"What will be the result?"</p>
  <p>"結果會是什麼?"</p>
  <p>"Probably a trial in contumacy. As soon as Parliament rises
  for Easter Rossi will be summoned to present himself within ten
  days. But you will be the first to know all about it, you
  know."</p>
  <p>
  "可能會是一場缺席審判。一旦議會進入復活節休會期，羅西將在十天內被傳喚出庭。但你將是第一個得知所有這些的人，你知道的。"</p>
  <p>"How so?"</p>
  <p>"怎麼會?"</p>
  <p>"The summons will be posted upon the door of the house he
  lived in, and on the door of any other house he is known to have
  frequented."</p>
  <p>"傳召將被張貼在他曾經居住的房子的門上，以及他被知道常常光顧的任何其他房子的門上。"</p>
  <p>"But if he never hears of it, or if he takes no heed?"</p>
  <p>"但如果他從未聽說過，或者他不在意呢？"</p>
  <p>"He will be tried all the same, and when he is a condemned man
  his sentence will be printed in black and posted up in the same
  places."</p>
  <p>"他將被同等地審判，當他被判為罪犯時，他的判決將以黑色印刷並張貼在相同的地方。"</p>
  <p>"And then?"</p>
  <p>"那麼呢？"</p>
  <p>"Then Rossi's life in Rome will be at an end. He will be
  interdicted from all public offices and expelled from
  Parliament."</p>
  <p>"那麼，羅西在羅馬的生活將會結束。他將被禁止擔任所有公共職位並被驅逐出議會。"</p>
  <p>"And Bruno?"</p>
  <p>"那麼布魯諾呢？"</p>
  <p>"He will be a free man the following morning."</p>
  <p>"他將在隔天早晨成為一個自由人。"</p>
  <p>Roma went home dazed and dejected. A letter was waiting for
  her. It was from the Director of the Roman prisons. Although the
  regulations stipulated that only relations should visit
  prisoners, except under special conditions, the
  Director<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00358"
  title="281"><a id="Page_281" title="281"></a></span> had no
  objection to Bruno Rocco's former employer seeing him at the
  ordinary bi-monthly hour for visitors to-morrow, Sunday
  afternoon.</p>
  <p>
  "羅馬傷心落寞地回到家中，一封信等著她。信是來自羅馬監獄的總監。儘管規定只有親屬可以探望囚犯，除非在特殊情況下，但總監並不反對布魯諾·羅科的前僱主在明天，也就是星期天下午的正常雙月訪問時間來見他。"</p>
  <p>At two o'clock next day Roma set off for Regina Cœli.</p>
  <p>"次日下午兩點，羅馬出發去雷吉娜潔琪。"</p>
  <h3 id="pgepubid00359">XV</h3>
  <p>The visiting-room of Regina Cœli is constructed on the
  principle of a rat-trap. It is an oblong room divided into three
  compartments longitudinally, the partition walls being composed
  of wire and resembling cages. The middle compartment is occupied
  by the armed warder in charge who walks up and down; the
  compartment on the prison side is divided into many narrow boxes
  each occupied by a prisoner, and the compartment on the world
  side is similarly divided into sections each occupied by a
  visitor.</p>
  <p>
  瑞吉娜切利的探視室是根據老鼠捕捉器的原理構造的。它是一個狹長的房間，沿著長通道被劃分為三個區間，隔板牆由金屬網組成，看起來像是鳥籠。中間的區間被配有武器的看守所佔據，他在裡面來回巡邏；監獄這邊的區間被劃分為許多狹窄的小間，每一間都由一名囚犯佔據，而世界這邊的區間也被同樣地劃分為多個區塊，每個區塊都由一名訪客佔據。</p>
  <p>When Roma entered this room she was deafened by a roar of
  voices. Thirty prisoners and as many of their friends were trying
  to talk at the same time across the compartment in the middle, in
  which the warder was walking. Each batch of friends and prisoners
  had fifteen minutes for their interview, and everybody was
  shouting so as to be heard above the rest.</p>
  <p>
  當羅馬進入這個房間時,她被一陣吵雜的聲音震得耳朵幾乎要聾了。有三十個囚犯和他們同樣多的朋友同時試圖跨過中間的隔間大聲對話，而獄警正在其中走來走去。每組朋友和囚犯有十五分鐘的訪談時間，每個人都在嘶吼著，以便聽聲音超越其他人。</p>
  <p>A feeling of moral and physical nausea took possession of Roma
  when she was shown into this place. After some minutes of the
  hellish tumult she had asked to see the Director. The message was
  taken upstairs, and the Director came down to speak to her.</p>
  <p>
  "當羅馬被帶到這個地方時，她感到一種道德和身體的噁心感。在這鬼般的喧嘩下，她花了幾分鐘時間要求見到了主任。這個訊息被帶到樓上，主任下來與她交談。"</p>
  <p>"Do you expect me to speak to my friend in this place and
  under these conditions?" she asked.</p>
  <p>"你期待我在這種地方，這種情況下和我的朋友講話嗎?"她問。</p>
  <p>"It is the usual place, and these are the usual conditions,"
  he answered.</p>
  <p>"這是常見的地方，這些是常見的條件，"他回答。</p>
  <p>"If you are unable to allow me to speak to him in some other
  place under some other conditions, I must go to the Minister of
  the Interior."</p>
  <p>"如果你不能讓我在其他地方或在其他條件下與他交談，我必須去找內政部長。"</p>
  <p>The Director bowed. "That will be unnecessary," he said.
  "There is a room reserved for special circumstances," and,
  calling a warder, he gave the necessary instructions. He was a
  good man in the toils of a vicious system.</p>
  <p>
  導演鞠躬道：“那個不需要，”他說：“有一個房間是為了特殊情況保留的。”然後，他叫來了一個看守，並給出了必要的指示。他是一個陷入惡性制度中的好人。</p>
  <p>A few minutes afterwards Roma was alone in a small bare room
  with Bruno, except for two warders who stood in the door. She was
  shocked at the change in him. His cheeks,<span class=
  "x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00360" title="282"><a id=
  "Page_282" title="282"></a></span> which used to be full and
  almost florid, were shrunken and pale; a short grizzly beard had
  grown over his chin, and his eyes, which had been frank and
  humorous, were fierce and evasive. Six weeks in prison had made a
  different man of him, and, like a dog which has been changed by
  sickness and neglect, he knew it and growled.</p>
  <p>
  幾分鐘後，羅馬和布魯諾單獨在一間簡單樸素的小房間裡，只有兩個看守站在門口。她對他的變化感到驚訝。他的臉頰本來飽滿，幾乎有點紅潤，現在卻變得瘦弱且蒼白；原本乾淨的下巴長滿了短短的灰色鬍子；他的眼睛也不再坦誠有趣，反而變得充滿戾氣且躲避眼神。獄中的六個星期使他變得面貌全非，就好像一隻因病痛和忽視變得面目全非的狗，他知道這一點，內心在呱呱叫。</p>
  <p>"What do you want with me?" he said angrily, as Roma looked at
  him without speaking.</p>
  <p>"你到底想要什麼？" 他生氣地說，羅馬默默地看著他。</p>
  <p>She flushed and begged his pardon, and at that his jaw
  trembled and he turned his head away.</p>
  <p>她臉紅般地道歉，他的下巴顫抖而他轉頭走開。</p>
  <p>"I trust you received the note I sent in to you, Bruno?"</p>
  <p>"布魯諾，你收到我傳給你的便條了吧？"</p>
  <p>"When? What note?"</p>
  <p>"何時？ 什麼筆記？"</p>
  <p>"On the day after your arrest, saying your dear ones should be
  cared for and comforted."</p>
  <p>"在你被捕的第二天，說你的親人應該得到照顧和安慰。"</p>
  <p>"And were they?"</p>
  <p>"他們是嗎？"</p>
  <p>"Yes. Then you didn't receive it?"</p>
  <p>"對。那麼你沒有收到它嗎？"</p>
  <p>"I was under punishment from the first."</p>
  <p>"我從一開始就受到懲罰。"</p>
  <p>"I also paid for a separate cell with food and light. Did you
  get that?"</p>
  <p>"我還付錢租了個有食物和燈光的單獨牢房。你明白了嗎？"</p>
  <p>"No, I was nearly all the time on bread and water."</p>
  <p>"不，我幾乎都是只吃麵包和喝水。"</p>
  <p>His sulkiness was breaking down and he was showing some
  agitation. She lifted her large dark eyes on him and said in a
  soft voice:</p>
  <p>他的乖戾情緒正在瓦解，他開始表現出一些不安。她抬起那雙大大的黑眼睛看著他，輕聲說道：</p>
  <p>"Poor Bruno! No wonder they have made you say things."</p>
  <p>"可憐的布魯諾！難怪他們讓你這樣說出來。"</p>
  <p>His jaw trembled more than ever. "No use talking of that," he
  said.</p>
  <p>"他的下巴比以往更加顫抖。他說，'這話沒用。'"</p>
  <p>"Mr. Rossi will be the first to feel for you."</p>
  <p>"羅西先生將會是第一個為你感到的人。"</p>
  <p>He turned his head and looked at her with a look of pity. "She
  doesn't know," he thought. "Why should I tell her? After all,
  she's in the same case as myself. What hurts me will hurt her.
  She has been good to me. Why should I make her suffer?"</p>
  <p>
  他轉過頭來，用憐憫的眼神看著她。“她不知道，”他心想，“我為甚麼要告訴她呢？畢竟，她和我處境相同。傷害我們將將傷害她。她對我這麼好，我憑什麼讓她受苦呢？”</p>
  <p>"If they've told you falsehoods, Bruno, in order to play on
  your jealousy and inspire revenge...." "Where's Rossi?" he said
  sharply.</p>
  <p>"如果他們對你撒謊，布魯諾，為了引起你的嫉妒並激發復仇...." "羅西在哪裡？"他突然尖銳地問。</p>
  <p>"In England."</p>
  <p>在英格蘭</p>
  <p>"And where's Elena?"</p>
  <p>"那麼，Elena在哪裡呢？"</p>
  <p>"I don't know."</p>
  <p>"我不知道。"</p>
  <p>He wagged his poor head with a wag of wisdom, and for a moment
  his clouded and stupefied brain was proud of itself.</p>
  <p>他揮了揮可憐的頭，像是在擺著智慧的態度，瞬間，他那困惑且麻木的大腦對自己感到驕傲。</p>
  <p>"It was wrong of Elena to go away without saying where she was
  going to, and Mr. Rossi is in despair about her."<span class=
  "x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00361" title="283"><a id=
  "Page_283" title="283"></a></span></p>
  <p>"說依萊娜無緣無故離開，而且沒有告訴大家她要去哪裡，是錯的，羅西先生對她感到絕望。"</p>
  <p>"You believe that?"</p>
  <p>"你相信那個嗎？"</p>
  <p>"Indeed I do."</p>
  <p>"的確，我做了。"</p>
  <p>These words staggered him, and he felt mean and small compared
  to this woman. "If she can believe in them why can't I?" he
  thought. But after a moment he smiled a pitiful smile and said
  largely, "You don't know, Donna Roma. But <i>I</i> do, and they
  don't hoodwink me. A poor fellow here—a convict, he works on the
  Gazette and hears all the news—he told me everything."</p>
  <p>
  「這些話讓他搖搖晃晃，相比這個女人，他感到自己卑微且渺小。"如果她能相信他們，我為什麼不能呢?"他想。但過了一會兒，他露出一個可憐的微笑，大聲地說，"你不知道，
  唐娜·羅馬。但我知道，他們沒有欺騙我。這裡有一個窮困的傢伙——一個罪犯，他在Gazette上工作並聽到所有的新聞——他告訴我一切。"」</p>
  <p>"What's his name?" said Roma.</p>
  <p>"他叫什麼名字？" 羅馬說。</p>
  <p>"Number 333, penal part. He used to occupy the next cell."</p>
  <p>"號碼333，刑事部分。他曾經住在旁邊的牢房。"</p>
  <p>"Then you never saw his face?"</p>
  <p>"那你從未見過他的臉嗎？"</p>
  <p>"No, but I heard his voice, and I could have sworn I knew
  it."</p>
  <p>"不，但我聽到他的聲音，我可以發誓我認識他。"</p>
  <p>"Was it the voice of Charles Minghelli?"</p>
  <p>"那是查爾斯·明格爾利的聲音嗎？"</p>
  <p>"Charles Ming...."</p>
  <p>"查爾斯·明...."</p>
  <p>"Time's up," said one of the warders at the door.</p>
  <p>"時間到了，"門口的警衛說。</p>
  <p>"Bruno," said Roma, rising, "I know that Charles Minghelli,
  who is now an agent of the police, has been in this prison in the
  disguise of a prisoner. I also know that after he was dismissed
  from the embassy in London he asked Mr. Rossi to assist him to
  assassinate the Prime Minister."</p>
  <p>"布魯諾，"
  羅馬站起來說，"我知道查爾斯·明赫利，現在是警方的一員，曾在這個監獄裡偽裝成囚犯。我也知道他在倫敦大使館被解僱後，曾尋求羅西先生的幫助，企圖暗殺首相。"</p>
  <p>"Right about," cried the warder, and with a bewildered
  expression the prisoner turned to go. Roma followed him through
  the open courtyard, and until he reached the iron gate he did not
  lift his head. Then he faced round with eyes full of tears, but
  full of fire as well, and raising one arm he cried in a resolute
  voice:</p>
  <p>
  "對了，"守衛大喊，囚犯帶著困惑的表情轉身走開。羅馬跟著他走過開放的庭院，在他到達鐵門之前，他未抬頭看。然後，他滿眼的淚水但也充滿火焰地轉過身，舉起一支手臂，堅決地大喊：</p>
  <p>"All right, sister! Leave it to me, damn me! I'll see it
  through."</p>
  <p>"好的，姐姐！交給我，該死的！我會貫徹到底的。"</p>
  <p>The private visiting-room had one disadvantage. Every word
  that passed was repeated to the Director. Later the same day the
  Director wrote to the Royal Commissioner:</p>
  <p>這個私人會客室有一個缺點。 每個經過的詞都會重複給主任聽。 同一天晚些時候，主任寫信給皇家專員：</p>
  <p>"Sorry to say the man Rocco has asked for an interview to
  retract his denunciation. I have refused it, and he has been
  violent with the chief warder. But inspired by a sentiment of
  justice I feel it my duty to warn you that I have been misled,
  that my instructions have been badly interpreted, and that I
  cannot hold myself responsible for the document I sent you."</p>
  <p>
  "很遺憾地說，那個名叫羅科的男人要求撤銷他的指控，但我拒絕了。他對監獄長表現出暴裂的態度。但是，基於正義的感悟，我感到有責任警告你，我已被誤導，我的指示被誤解，我不能為我寄給你的檔案負責。"</p>
  <p>The Commissioner sent this letter on to the Minister of the
  Interior, who immediately called up the Chief of
  Police.<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00362"
  title="284"><a id="Page_284" title="284"></a></span></p>
  <p>"專員將這封信轉交給內政部長，內政部長立即就打電話給警察局長。"</p>
  <p>"Commendatore," said the Baron, "what was the offence for
  which young Charles Minghelli was dismissed from the embassy in
  London?"</p>
  <p>"男爵說， 「貴族，查理斯·明赫利在倫敦大使館被解僱的罪過是什麼？"</p>
  <p>"He was suspected of forgery, your Excellency."</p>
  <p>"他被懷疑偽造文書，閣下。"</p>
  <p>"The warrant for his arrest was drawn out but never
  executed?"</p>
  <p>"他的逮捕令已經起草，但從未執行過？"</p>
  <p>"That is so, and we still hold it at the office...."</p>
  <p>"確實如此，我們仍然在辦公室裡掌握它...."</p>
  <p>"Commendatore!"</p>
  <p>"貴人!"</p>
  <p>"Your Excellency?"</p>
  <p>"閣下？"</p>
  <p>"Let the papers that were taken at the domiciliary visitation
  in the apartments of Deputy Rossi and his man Bruno be gone
  through again—let Minghelli go through them. You follow me?"</p>
  <p>"讓我們再次檢視在對羅西代表及其僕人布魯諾的家中搜索時取得的檔案—讓明赫利再過目一遍。你理解我的意思嗎？"</p>
  <p>"Perfectly, Excellency."</p>
  <p>"完全符合，閣下。"</p>
  <p>"Let your Delegate see if there is not a letter among them
  from Rossi to Bruno's wife—you understand?"</p>
  <p>"讓你的代表看看其中是否有來自羅西給布魯諾妻子的信——你明白嗎？"</p>
  <p>"I do."</p>
  <p>"我願意。"</p>
  <p>"If such a letter can be found let it be sent to the Under
  Prefect to add to his report for to-morrow's trial, and let the
  Public Prosecutor read it to the prisoner."</p>
  <p>"如果能找到這樣的一封信，請將其寄給副警長，以供他明天的審判報告中使用，並讓公訴人將其讀給囚犯聽。"</p>
  <p>"It shall be done, your Excellency."</p>
  <p>"將會辦到，閣下。"</p>
  <h3 id="pgepubid00363">XVI</h3>
  <p>At eight o'clock the next morning Roma was going into the
  courtyard of the Castle of St. Angelo when she met the carriage
  of the Prime Minister coming out. The coachman was stopped from
  inside, and the Baron himself alighted.</p>
  <p>
  "第二天早上八點，羅馬正走進聖安傑洛城堡的庭院時，遇見了首相的馬車從裡面開出來。從車裡有人把馬車伕攔住，然後男爵自己下了車。"</p>
  <p>"You look tired, my child," he said.</p>
  <p>"你看起來很累，我的孩子，"他說。</p>
  <p>"I <i>am</i> tired," she answered.</p>
  <p>「我累了，」她回答。</p>
  <p>"Hardly more than a month, yet so many things have
  happened!"</p>
  <p>"短短的一個月，但發生了如此多的事情！"</p>
  <p>"Oh, that! That's nothing—nothing whatever."</p>
  <p>"哦，那個！那是什麼都不是—完全沒有任何事情。"</p>
  <p>"Why should you pass through these privations? Roma, if I
  allowed these misfortunes to befall you it was only to let you
  feel what others could do for you. But I am the same as ever, and
  you have only to stretch out your hand and I am here to lighten
  your lot."</p>
  <p>
  "為什麼你應該經歷這些苦難？羅馬，如果我讓這些不幸降臨到你身上，只是為了讓你感受到別人可以為你做什麼。但我仍然如初，你只需要伸出你的手，我就在這裡為你分擔你的困苦。"</p>
  <p>"All that is over now. It is no use speaking as you spoke
  before. You are talking to another woman."</p>
  <p>"所有的一切現在都結束了。像以前那樣說話已經沒有用了。你現在正和另一個女人說話。"</p>
  <p>"Strange mystery of a woman's love! That she who
  set<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00364" title=
  "285"><a id="Page_285" title="285"></a></span> out to destroy her
  slanderer should become his slave! If he were only worthy of
  it!"</p>
  <p>"奇怪的愛情奧秘！一個設計去摧毀她的誹謗者的女人，卻變成了他的奴隸！如果他只是值得的話！"</p>
  <p>"He is worthy of it."</p>
  <p>"他值得它。"</p>
  <p>"If you should hear that he is not worthy—that he has even
  been untrue to you?"</p>
  <p>"如果你聽說他不值得信賴，甚至對你不忠，那會怎樣？"</p>
  <p>"I should think it is a falsehood, a contemptible
  falsehood."</p>
  <p>"我認為這是一種謊言，一種可鄙的謊言。"</p>
  <p>"But if you had proof, substantial proof, the proof of his own
  pen?"</p>
  <p>"但如果你有證據，有實質的證據，他親自筆下的證明呢？"</p>
  <p>"Good-morning! I must go."</p>
  <p>"早安！我必須走了。"</p>
  <p>"My child, what have I always told you? You will give the man
  up at last and carry out your first intention."</p>
  <p>"我的孩子，我一直告訴你什麼? 最後，你將放棄這個人並實現你的初衷。"</p>
  <p>With a deep bow and a scarcely perceptible smile the Baron
  turned to the open door of his carriage. Roma flushed up angrily
  and went on, but the poisoned arrow had gone home.</p>
  <p>
  具有深深的鞠躬和幾乎無法察覺的微笑，男爵轉向他馬車的開放式門。羅馬氣憤地漲紅了臉繼續前進，但是有毒的箭已經射中了目標。</p>
  <p>The military tribunal had begun its session. A ticket which
  Roma presented at the door admitted her to the well of the court
  where the advocates were sitting. The advocate Fuselli made a
  place for her by his side. It was a quiet moment and her entrance
  attracted attention. The judges in their red armchairs at the
  green-covered horse-shoe table looked up from their portfolios,
  and there was some whispering beyond the wooden bar where the
  public were huddled together. One other face had followed her,
  but at first she dared not look at that. It was the face of the
  prisoner in his prison clothes sitting between two
  Carabineers.</p>
  <p>
  軍事法庭已開始其審理。羅馬在門口出示的票證使她能夠進入律師們坐著的法庭之井。律師Fuselli在他的身邊為她騰出了位置。那是一個安靜的時刻，她的進入引起了人們的注意。坐在綠色覆蓋的馬蹄形桌子上的紅色扶手椅中的法官們從他們的公文包中抬起頭來，木欄杆外的公眾聚在一起，有人在低聲細語。另一張臉也跟隨著她，但起初她不敢看那張臉。那是囚犯的臉孔，他穿著監獄服坐在兩名憲兵之間。</p>
  <p>The secretary read the indictment. Bruno was charged not only
  with participation in the riot of the 1st of February, but also
  with being a promoter of associations designed to change
  violently the constitution of the state. It was a long document,
  and the secretary read it slowly and not very distinctly.</p>
  <p>
  秘書閱讀了起訴書。布魯諾被指控不僅參與了2月1日的騷亂，而且還是一個旨在透過暴力改變國家憲法的組織的推動者。這是一份很長的檔案，而且秘書讀得很慢，並且不是很清楚。</p>
  <p>When the indictment came to an end the Public Prosecutor rose
  to expound the accusation, and to mention the clauses of the Code
  under which the prisoner's crime had to be considered. He was a
  young captain of cavalry, with restless eyes and a twirled-up
  moustache. His long cloak hung over his chair, his light gloves
  lay on the table by his side, and his sword clanked as he made
  graceful gestures. He was an elegant speaker, much preoccupied
  about beautiful phrases, and obviously anxious to conciliate the
  judges.</p>
  <p>
  當起訴書審閱完畢，公訴人站起來闡述控訴之事，並提到憲法中對於被告所犯罪行需要考慮的條款。他是一位年輕的騎兵隊長，眼神焦躁不安，鬍子捲曲。他的長披風懸掛在椅子上，淺色手套放在旁邊的桌上，當他優雅地揮手時，他的劍會發出聲響。他是一位有風度的演說者，非常著迷於華麗的詞句，並顯然非常熱切地希望獲得法官們的悅心。</p>
  <p>"Illustrious gentlemen of the tribunal," he began,
  and<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00365" title=
  "286"><a id="Page_286" title="286"></a></span> then went on with
  a compliment to the King, a flourish to the name of the Prime
  Minister, a word of praise to the army, and finally a scathing
  satire on the subversive schemes which it was desired to set up
  in place of existing institutions. The most crushing denunciation
  of the delirious idea which had led to the unhappy insurrection
  was the crude explanation of its aims. A universal republic
  founded on the principles enunciated in the Lord's Prayer!
  Thrones, armies, navies, frontiers, national barriers, all to be
  abolished! So simple! So easy! So childlike! But alas, so absurd!
  So entirely oblivious of the great principles of political
  economy and international law, and of impulses and instincts
  profoundly sculptured in the heart of man!</p>
  <p>
  "尊貴的審判團成員們,"他開始講話，然後對國王表示稱讚，獻媚於首相的名字，對軍隊讚美之詞，最後痛斥那些希望取代現有制度的顛覆性計劃。最讓人痛心的是，那個讓人慾哭無淚的叛亂主張，被粗略地解釋成其目標。建立在主禱文原則上的全球共和國！廢除王位、軍隊、海軍、邊界、國家障礙！如此簡單！如此容易！如此孩子氣！然而，唉，如此荒謬！如此完全忽視了政治經濟的重要原則和國際法，以及深深烙印在人的心中的衝動和本能！"</p>
  <p>After various little sallies which made his fellow-officers
  laugh and the judges smile, the showy person wiped his big
  moustache with a silk handkerchief, and came to Bruno. This
  unhappy man was not one of the greater delinquents who, by their
  intelligence, had urged on the ignorant crowd. He was merely a
  silly and perhaps drunken person, who if taken away from the
  wine-shop and put into uniform would make a valiant soldier. The
  creature was one of the human dogs of our curious species. His
  political faith was inscribed with one word only—Rossi. He would
  not ask for severe punishment on such a deluded being, but he
  would request the court to consider the case as a means of
  obtaining proof against the dark if foolish minds (fit subjects
  for Lombroso) which are always putting the people into opposition
  with their King, their constitution, and the great heads of
  government.</p>
  <p>
  在做出各種小的出擊讓他的同僚軍官笑出聲，並且讓法官們露出微笑後，這個炫耀的人用絲巾擦了擦他豐滿的大鬍子，然後走向布魯諾。這個不幸的人並不是那些憑藉智慧煽動無知群眾的大罪犯之一。他只是一個愚蠢且可能醉醺醺的人，如果被從酒吧帶走並穿上制服，他可能會成為一個英勇的士兵。這個生物是我們這個奇特物種中的人類狗狗之一。他的政治信念只用一個詞來描述——羅西。他不會要求對這樣一個被欺騙的人進行嚴厲的懲罰，但他會請求法庭將此案認為是獲得證據的一種手段，用來指責那些總是讓人民與他們的國王、他們的憲法和政府的大頭目對立的，如果愚蠢的人(適合龍布羅梭研究的主題)。</p>
  <p>The sword clanked again as the young soldier sat down. Then
  for the first time Roma looked over at Bruno. His big rugged face
  was twisted into an expression of contempt, and somehow the
  "human dog of our curious species," sitting in his prison clothes
  between the soldiers, made the elegant officer look like a pet
  pug.</p>
  <p>
  當年輕的士兵坐下時，劍子再次發出喀嚓聲。然後，羅馬第一次看向布魯諾。他那張粗獷的大臉扭曲成蔑視的表情，怎麼看也覺得這位我們奇特物種中的“人類狗”，坐在士兵們之間的他的監獄服裝，都讓那位優雅的軍官看起來像隻寵物哈巴狗。</p>
  <p>"Bruno Rocco, stand up," said the president. "You are a Roman,
  aren't you?"</p>
  <p>"布魯諾·羅科，起立，"主席說。 "你是羅馬人，對嗎？"</p>
  <p>"Yes, I am—I'm a Roman of Rome," said Bruno.</p>
  <p>"是的，我是，我是羅馬的羅馬人，"布魯諾說。</p>
  <p>The witnesses were called. First a Carabineer to prove Bruno's
  violence. Then another Carabineer, and another, and another, with
  the same object. After each of the Carabineers had given his
  evidence the president asked the prisoner if he had any questions
  to ask the witnesses.<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id=
  "pgepubid00366" title="287"><a id="Page_287" title=
  "287"></a></span></p>
  <p>證人被傳召。首先是一名憲兵，目的是證明布魯諾的暴力行為。 然後是另一名憲兵，再一名，再一名，目的相同。
  每名憲兵證詞給出後，主席問囚犯他是否對證人有任何問題要問。</p>
  <p>"None whatever. What they say is true. I admit it," he
  said.</p>
  <p>"他們說的全是真的。我承認，"他說。</p>
  <p>At last he grew impatient and cried out, "I admit it, I tell
  you. What's the good of going on?"</p>
  <p>"最後他變得不耐煩，並大喊:「我承認了，我告訴你。還有什麼好繼續的？」"</p>
  <p>The next witness was the Chief of Police. Commendatore
  Angelelli was called to prove that the cause of the revolt was
  not the dearness of bread but the formation of subversive
  associations, of which the "Republic of Man" was undoubtedly the
  strongest and most virulent. The prisoner, however, was not one
  of the directing set, and the police knew him only as a sort of
  watch-dog for the Honourable Rossi.</p>
  <p>下一位見證人是警察局長。Commendatore
  Angelelli被叫上來證明起義的原因不是麵包的昂貴，而是製造顛覆性協會的形成，其中“人的共和國”無疑是最強大最惡毒的。然而，這名囚犯並不是領導集團中的一員，警察只知道他是高尚的羅西的一種看門狗。</p>
  <p>"The man's a fool. Why don't you go on with the trial?" cried
  Bruno.</p>
  <p>"那個人是個傻瓜。你為何不繼續審判?"布魯諾大叫。</p>
  <p>"Silence," cried the usher of the court, but the prisoner only
  laughed out loud.</p>
  <p>"安靜，"法庭的引庭員喊道，但囚犯只是大笑出來。</p>
  <p>Roma looked at Bruno again. There was something about the man
  which she had never seen before, something more than the mere
  spirit of defiance, something terrible and tremendous.</p>
  <p>"羅馬再次看向布魯諾。她從未在他身上看到過的某些東西，不僅僅是對抗的精神，還有一些可怕而巨大的東西。"</p>
  <p>"Francesca Maria Mariotti," cried the usher, and the old deaf
  mother of Bruno's wife was brought into court. She wore a
  coloured handkerchief on her head as usual, and two shawls over
  her shoulders. Being a relative of the prisoner, she was not
  sworn.</p>
  <p>
  "弗朗西斯卡·瑪麗亞·馬里奧蒂！"陪審員喊道，布魯諾的妻子那個又老又聾的母親被帶入了法庭。她頭上一如既往的戴著彩色的手帕，肩上披著兩條披肩。作為囚犯的親戚，她沒有被宣誓。</p>
  <p>"Your name and your father's name?" said the president.</p>
  <p>"請問你的名字和你父親的名字？"說總統。</p>
  <p>"Francesca Maria Mariotti," she answered.</p>
  <p>"弗朗西絲卡·瑪麗亞·瑪利奧蒂," 她回答。</p>
  <p>"I said your father's name."</p>
  <p>"我說了你父親的名字。"</p>
  <p>"Seventy-five, your Excellency."</p>
  <p>"七十五，閣下。"</p>
  <p>"I asked you for your father's name."</p>
  <p>"我問你父親的名字。"</p>
  <p>"None at all, your Excellency."</p>
  <p>"完全沒有，閣下。"</p>
  <p>A Carabineer explained that the woman was nearly stone deaf,
  whereupon the president, who was irritated by the laughter his
  questions had provoked, ordered the woman to be removed.</p>
  <p>一名憲兵解釋說，這位女士幾乎聾了。結果，主席對他的問題引起的笑聲感到惱火，於是下令將這位女士帶走。</p>
  <p>"Tommaso Mariotti," said the president, after the preliminary
  interrogations, "you are porter at the Piazza Navona, and will be
  able to say if meetings of political associations were held
  there, if the prisoner took part in them, and who were the
  organising authorities. Now answer me, were meetings ever held in
  your house?"</p>
  <p>
  "湯瑪索·馬里奧蒂,"會長在初步的審問後說，"你在納沃納廣場擔任門房，將能夠說明是否在那裡舉行了政治團體的會議，被告是否參與了他們，以及誰是組織者。現在回答我，你的房子裡有舉行過會議嗎？"</p>
  <p>The old man turned his pork-pie hat in his hand, and made no
  answer.<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00367"
  title="288"><a id="Page_288" title="288"></a></span></p>
  <p>那位老人轉動他手中的豬肉餡餅帽，並未作出回答。</p>
  <p>"Answer me. We cannot sit here all day doing nothing."</p>
  <p>"回答我。我們不能整天坐在這裡什麼都不做。"</p>
  <p>"It's the Eternal City, Excellency—we can take our time," said
  the old man.</p>
  <p>"這是永恆的城市，閣下，我們可以慢慢來，"老人說。</p>
  <p>"Answer the president instantly," said the usher. "Don't you
  know he can punish you if you don't?"</p>
  <p>"立即回答總統，"公告員說。 "你不知道他可以懲罰你，如果你不回答他嗎？"</p>
  <p>At that the Garibaldian's eyes became moist, and he looked at
  the judges. "Generals," he said, "I am only an old man, not much
  good to anybody, but I was a soldier myself once. I was one of
  the 'Thousand,' the 'Brave Thousand' they called us, and I shed
  my blood for my country. Now I am more than threescore years and
  ten, and the rest of my days are numbered. Do you want me for the
  sake of what is left of them to betray my comrades?"</p>
  <p>
  於是，加里波第的眼眶泛濕，他看向法官們。“將軍們，”他說，“我只是個老人，對任何人來說都不怎麼有用。但我曾是一名士兵。我是'千人隊'的一員，他們稱我們為'勇敢的千人隊'，我為我的國家流血。現在我已超過七十歲，我的日子已經計算得差不多了。你們是想讓我在剩下的日子裡背叛我的戰友嗎？”</p>
  <p>"Next witness," said the president, and at the same moment a
  thick, half-stifled voice came from the bench of the accused.</p>
  <p>"下一位證人，"主席說，同時，被告席上傳來了一個悶悶的、半哽咽的聲音。</p>
  <p>"Why the —— don't you go on with the trial?"</p>
  <p>"為什麼——你不繼續審判呢？"</p>
  <p>"Prisoner," said the president, "if you continue to make these
  interruptions I shall stop the trial and order you to be
  flogged."</p>
  <p>"被告人，"法庭主席說，"如果你繼續這些打斷話題的行為，我將停止審判，並下令對你進行鞭打。"</p>
  <p>Bruno answered with a peal of laughter. The president—he was a
  bald-headed man with the heavy jaw of a bloodhound—looked at him
  attentively for a moment, and then said to the men below:</p>
  <p>布魯諾用一陣大笑回答。主席——他是一個光頭，具有血獵犬般的厚重下巴的男人—— 專注地看了他一會兒，然後向下面的人說：</p>
  <p>"Go on."</p>
  <p>"繼續。"</p>
  <p>The next witness was the Director of Regina Cœli. He deposed
  that the prisoner had made a statement to him which he had taken
  down in writing. This statement amounted to a denunciation of the
  Deputy David Rossi as the real author of the crime of which he
  with others was charged.</p>
  <p>下一個證人是Regina
  Cœli的主管。他作證，犯人向他做了一個陳述，他已經以書面形式記錄下來。這個聲明相當於控告副代表大衛·羅西是他和其他人被指控的罪行的實際作者。</p>
  <p>After the denunciation had been read the president asked the
  prisoner if he had any questions to put to the witness, and
  thereupon Bruno cried in a loud voice:</p>
  <p>"在讀完控訴書後，主席問囚犯是否有任何問題要問證人，然後布魯諾大聲喊叫："</p>
  <p>"Of course I have. It is exactly what I've been waiting
  for."</p>
  <p>"當然我有。這正是我一直在等待的。"</p>
  <p>He had risen to his feet, kicked over a chair which stood in
  front of him, and folded his arms across his breast.</p>
  <p>他已經站起來，踢翻了站在他前面的椅子，並將雙臂交叉在胸前。</p>
  <p>"Ask him," said Bruno, "if he sent for me late at night and
  promised my pardon if I would denounce David Rossi."</p>
  <p>"問他," 布魯諾說, "他是否在深夜叫我來，並承諾如果我背叛了大衛·羅西，他會赦免我的罪行."</p>
  <p>"It was not so," said the Director. "All I did was
  to<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00368" title=
  "289"><a id="Page_289" title="289"></a></span> advise him not to
  observe a useless silence which could only condemn him to further
  imprisonment if by speaking the truth he could save himself and
  serve the interests of justice."</p>
  <p>"事實並非如此," 主任說,
  "我只是建議他不要保持無謂的沉默，如果講出事實真相能讓他自救並服務於公正的利益，否則只會讓他陷入更深的囚禁。"</p>
  <p>"Ask him," said Bruno, "if the denunciation he speaks of was
  not dictated by himself."</p>
  <p>"請問他，"布魯諾說，"他所講的那份告發書是否是他自己口授的。"</p>
  <p>"The prisoner," said the Director, "made the denunciation
  voluntarily, and I rose from my bed to receive it at his urgent
  request."</p>
  <p>"獄中人," 總監說, "是自願的告發， 他急切的要求，我甚至從床上站起來接受他的告發。"</p>
  <p>"Ask him if I said one word to denounce David Rossi."</p>
  <p>"問他，我有沒有說過一句話來譴責大衛·羅西。"</p>
  <p>"The prisoner had made statements to a fellow-prisoner, and
  these were embodied in the document he signed."</p>
  <p>"那名囚犯曾對其他囚犯作出陳述，而這些陳述被寫入他簽署的檔案中。"</p>
  <p>The advocate Fuselli interposed. "Then the Court is to
  understand that the Director who dictated this denunciation knew
  nothing from the prisoner himself?"</p>
  <p>律師 Fuselli 插話說："那麼法院是否應該理解為，發起這項定罪的主任並未從囚犯本人那裡獲得任何資訊？"</p>
  <p>The Director hesitated, stammered, and finally admitted that
  it was so. "I was inspired by a sentiment of justice," he said.
  "I acted from duty."</p>
  <p>總監猶豫了一會，結結巴巴，最終承認是那樣的。 "我是受到正義感的啟發，"他說。"我是出於職責而行動的。"</p>
  <p>"This man fed me on bread and water," cried Bruno. "He put me
  in the punishment cells and tortured me in the strait-waistcoat
  with pains and sufferings like Jesus Christ's, and when he had
  reduced my body and destroyed my soul he dictated a denunciation
  of my dearest friend and my unconscious fingers signed it."</p>
  <p>"這個男人只給我吃麵包喝水，"
  布魯諾哭喊著。"他把我放在懲罰單位，並在緊身背心裡折磨我，帶來的痛苦和痛苦就像耶穌基督一樣。當他消耗我的身體，摧毀我的靈魂後，他口述了對我最親愛的朋友的譴責，我的無意識的手指簽了它。"</p>
  <p>"Don't shout so loud," said the president.</p>
  <p>"不要那麼大聲喊叫," 總統說。</p>
  <p>"I'll shout as loud as I like," said Bruno, and everybody
  turned to look at him. It was useless to protest. Something
  seemed to say that no power on earth could touch a man in a mood
  like that.</p>
  <p>"我想怎麼吵就怎麼吵，"
  布魯諾說，然後每個人都轉過頭來看他。抗議是無用的。似乎有什麼東西告訴人們，沒有任何力量可以影響一個處於這種情緒的人。</p>
  <p>The next witness was the chief warder. He deposed that he was
  present at the denunciation, that it was made voluntarily, and
  that no pressure whatever was put upon the prisoner.</p>
  <p>接下來的證人是監獄長。他作證說他在控告現場，該指控是自願的，並且對囚犯完全沒有施加任何壓力。</p>
  <p>"Ask him," cried Bruno, "if on Sunday afternoon, when I went
  into his cabinet to withdraw the denunciation, he refused to let
  me."</p>
  <p>"問他," 布魯諾喊道, "在我星期天下午進入他的辦公室要撤銷指控時，他是否拒絕了我。"</p>
  <p>"It is not true," said the witness.</p>
  <p>"那不是真的,"證人說。</p>
  <p>"You liar," cried Bruno, "you know it is true; and when I told
  you that you were making me drag an innocent man to the galleys I
  struck you, and the mark of my fist is on your forehead still.
  There it is, as red as a Cardinal, while the rest of your face is
  as white as a Pope."</p>
  <p>"你這個騙子，"布魯諾哭喊道，"你知道這是真的;
  當我告訴你，你讓我把一個無辜的人拖到囚車上，我打了你，我的拳頭印記還在你的前額上呢。那個印記紅得像紅衣主教，而你的臉其他部分白得像教皇。"</p>
  <p>The president no longer tried to restrain Bruno.
  There<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00369" title=
  "290"><a id="Page_290" title="290"></a></span> was something in
  the man's face that was beyond reproof. It was the outraged
  spirit of Justice.</p>
  <p>總統不再試圖克制布魯諾。他的臉上有些東西超越了譴責。那是被激怒的正義精神。</p>
  <p>The chief warder went on to say that at various times he had
  received reports that Rocco was communicating important facts to
  a fellow-prisoner.</p>
  <p>監獄長進一步表示，他曾多次收到報告，指出Rocco正在向同囚犯傳遞重要事實。</p>
  <p>"Where is this fellow-prisoner? Is he at the disposition of
  the court?" said the president.</p>
  <p>"這位犯人在哪裡？他是否聽命於法庭？"主席說。</p>
  <p>"I'm afraid he has since been set at liberty," said the
  witness, whereupon Bruno laughed uproariously, and pointing to
  some one in the well, he shouted:</p>
  <p>"我恐怕他自那時以來就被釋放了，"證人說， 布魯諾大笑起來，然後他向井裡的某人指去，大叫：</p>
  <p>"There he is—there! The dandy in cuffs and collar. His name is
  Minghelli."</p>
  <p>"他就在那裡—那裡！穿著袖釦和領子的花花公子。他的名字是明赫利。"</p>
  <p>"Call him," said the president, and Minghelli was sworn and
  examined.</p>
  <p>"讓他來,"總統說,然後Minghelli被宣誓並接受審查。</p>
  <p>"Until recently you were a prisoner in Regina Cœli, and have
  just been pardoned for public services?"</p>
  <p>"直到最近，你還是 Regina Cœli 的囚犯，剛剛因公共服務而被赦免?"</p>
  <p>"That is true, your Excellency."</p>
  <p>“那是真的，閣下。”</p>
  <p>"It's a lie," cried Bruno.</p>
  <p>“這是謊言，”布魯諾大喊。</p>
  <p>Minghelli leaned on the witness's chair, caressed his small
  moustache, and told his story. He had occupied the next cell to
  the prisoner, and talked with him in the usual language of
  prisoners. The prisoner had spoken of a certain great man and
  then of a certain great act, and that the great man had gone to
  England to prepare for it. He understood the great man to be the
  Deputy Rossi, and the great act to be the overthrow of the
  constitution and the assassination of the King.</p>
  <p>
  明赫利倚靠在證人的椅子上，撫摸著他的小鬍子，然後講述他的故事。他曾佔據囚犯旁邊的牢房，並用囚犯的通常語言與他交談。囚犯提到了一個偉大的人，然後提到了一個偉大的行動，說那位偉大的人已經去了英國為之做準備。他理解那位偉大的人是副議長羅西，偉大的行動是推翻憲法和刺殺國王。</p>
  <p>"You son of a priest," cried Bruno, "you lie!"</p>
  <p>"你是祭司的兒子，"布魯諾吼道，"你在撒謊！"</p>
  <p>"Bruno Rocco," said the president, "do not agitate yourself.
  You are under the protection of the law. Be calm and tell us your
  own story."</p>
  <p>"布魯諾·羅科，"總統說，"別激動。你受到法律的保護。保持冷靜，告訴我們你的故事。"</p>
  <h3 id="pgepubid00370">XVII</h3>
  <p>"Your Excellency," said Bruno, "this man is a witness by
  profession, and he was put into the next cell to torture me and
  make me denounce my friends. I didn't see his face, and I didn't
  know who he was until afterwards, and so he tore me to pieces. He
  said he was a proof-reader on the Official Gazette and heard
  everything. When my heart was bleeding for the death of my poor
  little boy—only seven years of age, such a curly-headed little
  fellow, like a sunbeam<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id=
  "pgepubid00371" title="291"><a id="Page_291" title=
  "291"></a></span> in a fog, killed in the riot, your
  Excellency—he poisoned my mind about my wife, and said she had
  run away with Rossi. It was a lie, but I was brought down by
  flogging and bread and water and I believed it, because I was mad
  and my soul was exhausted and dead. But when I found out who he
  was I tried to take back my denunciation, and they wouldn't let
  me. Your Excellency, I tell you the truth. Everybody should tell
  the truth here. I alone am guilty, and if I have accused anybody
  else I ask pardon of God. As for this man, he is an assassin and
  I can prove it. He used to be at the embassy in London, and when
  he was sacked he came to Mr. Rossi and proposed to assassinate
  the Prime Minister. Mr. Rossi flung him out of the house, and
  that was the beginning of everything."</p>
  <p>"閣下," 布魯諾說,
  "這個人是一名專業的證人，他被安排在我旁邊的牢房裡，並進行折磨，讓我背叛我的朋友。我沒有看到他的臉，也不知道他是誰，所以他把我撕成了碎片。他說他是官方公告的校對員，聽到了一切。當我因我可憐的小男孩的死而心碎時——他只有七歲，就像霧中的太陽光束，頭上捲曲的一小撮，死在騷亂中，閣下——他謀害了我的意志，並說我的妻子和羅西逃跑了。這是一個謊言，但我被鞭打和吃麵包喝水使我相信了它，因為我瘋了，我的靈魂已經疲憊而死亡。但是當我發現他是誰時，我試圖收回我的指控，但他們不讓我做。閣下，我告訴你真相。此處的每個人都應該說出真相。只有我有罪，如果我指控了其他人，我向上帝請求寬恕。至於這個人，他是一個刺客，我可以證明它。他以前在倫敦的大使館工作，當他被解僱時，他來找羅西先生，並建議刺殺總理。羅西先生把他趕出了房子，那就是一切的開始."</p>
  <p>"This is not true," said Minghelli, red as the gills of a
  turkey.</p>
  <p>"這不是真的，"明格利紅著臉，像火雞的鰓一樣。</p>
  <p>"Isn't it? Give me the cross, and let me swear the man a
  liar," cried Bruno.</p>
  <p>"不是嗎？給我十字架，讓我發誓那個人是個騙子，"Bruno 大聲疾呼。</p>
  <p>Roma was breathing hard and rising to her feet, but the
  advocate Fuselli restrained her and rose himself. In six
  sentences he summarised the treatment of Bruno in prison, and
  denounced it as worthy of the cruellest epochs of tyrannical
  domination, in which men otherwise honourable could become demons
  in order to save the dynasty and the institutions and to make
  their own careers.</p>
  <p>
  "羅馬氣喘吁吁地站起來，但辯護人Fuselli阻止了她，並自己站了起來。他用六句話概述了布魯諾在監獄中的待遇，並譴責這種待遇，認為它值得被當作最殘酷的專制統治時代，當時本來光榮的人可能會變成惡魔，只是為了拯救王朝，保護制度，並建立自己的事業。"</p>
  <p>"Mr. President," he cried, "I call on you in the name of
  humanity to say that justice in Italy has nothing to do with a
  barbarous system which aims at obtaining denunciations through
  jealousy and justice through revenge."</p>
  <p>
  "總統先生，"他呼喊道，"我以人道的名義呼籲你說，正義在義大利與一種野蠻的制度無關，該制度旨在透過嫉妒獲取檢舉，透過復仇實現正義。"</p>
  <p>The president was deeply moved. "I have made a solemn promise
  under the shadow of that venerable image"—he pointed to the
  effigy above him—"to administer justice in this case, and to the
  last I will do my duty."</p>
  <p>總統深受感動。 "在那位莊重的形象的影子下，我已經做出了一個莊嚴的承諾" ——他指向他上方的肖像 ——
  "在這個案件中行使公正，我將遵守我的責任到最後。"</p>
  <p>The Public Prosecutor rose again and obtained permission to
  interrogate the prisoner.</p>
  <p>公訴人再次起立並獲得許可審問犯人。</p>
  <p>"You say the witness Minghelli told you that your wife had
  fled with the Honourable Rossi?"</p>
  <p>"您說見證人Minghelli告訴您，您的妻子已經和榮譽的Rossi逃走了嗎？"</p>
  <p>"He did, and it was a lie, like all the rest of it."</p>
  <p>"他確實如此，但那都是謊言，就像他的所有其他陳述一樣。"</p>
  <p>"How do you know it was a lie?"</p>
  <p>"你怎麼知道那是謊言？"</p>
  <p>Bruno made no answer, and the young officer took up a letter
  from his portfolio.</p>
  <p>布魯諾沒有回答，這位年輕的軍官從他的文件夾中拿出一封信。</p>
  <p>"Do you know the Honourable Rossi's handwriting?"</p>
  <p>"你認識羅西先生的手寫字跡嗎？"</p>
  <p>"Do I know my own ugly fist?"<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno"
  id="pgepubid00372" title="292"><a id="Page_292" title=
  "292"></a></span></p>
  <p>我是否認識我的自己醜陋的拳頭？</p>
  <p>"Is that the Honourable Rossi's writing?" said the officer,
  handing the envelope to the usher to be shown to Bruno.</p>
  <p>"那是尊敬的羅西先生的筆跡嗎？"這位軍官說，並把信封交給引庭員，讓布魯諾看。</p>
  <p>"It is," said Bruno.</p>
  <p>“這就是，”布魯諾說。</p>
  <p>"Sure of it?"</p>
  <p>"確定嗎？"</p>
  <p>"Sure."</p>
  <p>"當然。"</p>
  <p>"You see it is a letter addressed to your wife?"</p>
  <p>"你看到這是一封寫給你妻子的信了嗎？"</p>
  <p>"I see. But you needn't go on washing the donkey's head,
  Mister—I know what you are getting at."</p>
  <p>"我明白了。但是你沒有必要繼續洗驢子的頭，先生——我知道你在暗示什麼。"</p>
  <p>"You must not speak like that to him, Rocco," said the
  president. "Remember, he is the honourable representative of the
  law."</p>
  <p>"你不可以那樣對他說話，Rocco，"主席說, "記住，他是法律的尊貴代表。"</p>
  <p>"Mustn't I, Excellency? Then tell his honourableness that
  David Rossi and my wife are like brother and sister, and anybody
  who makes evil of that isn't stuff to take with a pair of
  tongs."</p>
  <p>
  "我不應該說出來嗎，閣下？那麼請告訴尊貴的他，大衛·羅西和我的妻子就像兄妹一樣，任何把這當作壞事的人都不值得我們用鉗子夾起來。"</p>
  <p>Saying this, Bruno flung the letter back on to the table.</p>
  <p>說完這些，布魯諾將信扔回桌子上。</p>
  <p>"Don't you want to read it?"</p>
  <p>"你不想讀嗎？"</p>
  <p>"Not I! It's somebody else's correspondence, and I'm not an
  honourable representative of the law."</p>
  <p>"不是我！這是別人的信件，我並不是法律的榮譽代表。"</p>
  <p>"Then permit me to read it to you," said the Public
  Prosecutor, and taking the letter out of the envelope he began in
  a loud voice:</p>
  <p>"那麼，請允許我唸給你聽，"公訴人說，並從信封中取出信，然後大聲讀起來：</p>
  <p>"'Dearest Elena....'"</p>
  <p>"最親愛的艾琳娜...."</p>
  <p>"That's nothing," Bruno interrupted. "They're like brother and
  sister, I tell you."</p>
  <p>“那沒什麼，"布魯諾打斷了她的話，“我告訴你，他們就像兄妹一樣。”</p>
  <p>The Public Prosecutor went on reading:</p>
  <p>"公訴人繼續閱讀："</p>
  <p>"'I continue to be overwhelmed with grief for the death of our
  poor little Joseph.'"</p>
  <p>"我對我們可憐的小約瑟夫的去世仍感到深深的悲痛。"</p>
  <p>"That's right! That's David Rossi. He loved the boy the same
  as if he had been his own son. Go on."</p>
  <p>"沒錯！那就是大衛·羅西。他愛那個男孩就像他是自己的兒子一樣。繼續。"</p>
  <p>"'... Our child—your child—my child, Elena.'"</p>
  <p>"「...我們的孩子—你的孩子—我的孩子，Elena。」"</p>
  <p>"Nothing wrong there. Don't try to make mischief of that,"
  cried Bruno.</p>
  <p>"沒有錯誤。不要試圖從中製造孽亂，"布魯諾大喊。</p>
  <p>"'But now that the boy is gone, and Bruno is in prison,
  perhaps for years, the obstacles must be removed which have
  hitherto prevented you from joining your life to mine and living
  for me, as I have always lived for you. Come to me then, my dear
  one, my beloved....'"</p>
  <p>
  "但是現在孩子已經離開，布魯諾可能要坐幾年的監獄，過去阻止你與我共度一生的障礙必須消除。就像我一直為你生活一樣，來與我共度一生，我的親愛的，我心愛的...."</p>
  <p>Here Bruno, who had been stepping forward at every word,
  snatched the letter out of the Public Prosecutor's hand.</p>
  <p>"在此，布魯諾一聽到每個單詞就往前邁進一步，從公訴人手中搶過來了信。"</p>
  <p>"Stop that! Don't go reading out of the back of your head," he
  cried.<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00373" title=
  "293"><a id="Page_293" title="293"></a></span></p>
  <p>"停下！別從你的腦袋後面讀出來，"他喊道。</p>
  <p>No one protested, everybody felt that whatever he did this
  injured man must be left alone. Roma felt a roaring in her ears,
  and for some minutes she could scarcely command herself. In a
  vague way she was conscious of the same struggle in her own heart
  as was going on in the heart of Bruno. This, then, was what the
  Baron referred to when he spoke of Rossi being untrue to her, and
  of the proof of his disloyalty in his own handwriting.</p>
  <p>
  沒有人抗議，每個人都覺得這個受傷的人必須被留下來獨自承受。羅馬覺得自己的耳朵裡傳來一陣嘈雜的聲音，幾分鐘內，她幾乎無法控制自己。她心中迷迷糊糊地意識到，自己正經歷著與布魯諾心中相同的掙扎。那麼，當男爵說羅西對她不忠，並以羅西自己的親筆證明他的不忠時，他指的就是這件事情。</p>
  <p>Bruno, who was running his eyes over the letter, read parts of
  it aloud in a low husky voice:</p>
  <p>"Bruno正在閱讀信件，用低沉嘶啞的聲音大聲朗讀信件的部分內容："</p>
  <p>"'And now that the boy is gone and Bruno is in prison ...
  perhaps for years ... the obstacles must be removed....'"</p>
  <p>"'現在男孩已經走了，布魯諾在監獄裡.....可能會有幾年......所有的障礙都必須被清除。'"</p>
  <p>He stopped, looked up, and stared about him. His face had
  undergone an awful change. Then he returned to the letter, and in
  jerky sentences he read again:</p>
  <p>他停下腳步，抬頭，四周打量。他的臉色經歷了一個可怕的變化。然後他又回到了信上，以斷斷續續的句子重新讀了一遍：</p>
  <p>"'Come to me then ... my dear one ... my beloved....'"</p>
  <p>"`來到我身邊......我的親愛的......我心愛的....`"</p>
  <p>Until that moment an evil spirit in Roma had been saying to
  her, in spite of herself: "Can it be possible that while you have
  been going through all those privations for his sake he has been
  consoling himself with another woman?" Impossible! The letter was
  a manifest imposture. She wouldn't believe a word of it.</p>
  <p>
  `在那一刻之前，羅馬的一個邪惡精神一直在她心中對她說，盡管她自己不願意接受："當你為了他而經歷這些痛苦的時候，他是否在用另一個女人來安慰自己呢？"
  不可能！這封信明顯是虛假的。她不相信它的任何內容。`</p>
  <p>But Bruno was still in the toils of his temptation. "Look
  here," he said, lifting a pitiful face. "What with the bread and
  water and the lashes I don't know that my head isn't light, and
  I'm fancying I see things...."</p>
  <p>但是布魯諾仍然困在他的誘惑之中。他說著，舉起一張可憐的臉。"看在這裡，" 他說，"
  麵包和水以及鞭擊，我不知道我的頭是否感覺輕飄飄的，我覺得我看到了一些東西...."</p>
  <p>The paper of the letter was crackling in his hand, and his
  husky voice was breaking. Save for these sounds and the
  tramp—tramp—tramp of the soldiers drilling outside, there was a
  dead silence in the court.</p>
  <p>他手中的信件紙張發出沙沙聲，他沙啞的聲音正在破碎。除了這些聲音以及外面正在訓練的士兵的步伐聲——外面是死一般的寂靜。</p>
  <p>"You are not fancying at all, Rocco," said the Public
  Prosecutor. "We are all sorry for you, and I am sure the
  illustrious gentlemen of the tribunal pity you. Your comrade,
  your master, the man you have followed and trusted, is false to
  you. He is a traitor to his friend, his country, and his King.
  The denunciation you made in prison is true in substance and in
  fact. I advise you to adhere to it, and to cast yourself on the
  clemency of the court."</p>
  <p>
  "你並非在發奇想，羅科。"公訴人說："我們都為你感到遺憾，我確定法庭的尊貴先生們也憐憫你。你的同伴，你的主人，你追隨並信任的人對你不忠。他是對他的朋友，他的國家，和他的國王的背叛者。你在監獄裡的揭發在實質和事實上都是真的。我建議你堅持它，並將自己扔給法庭的寬恕。"</p>
  <p>"Here—you—shut up your head and let a man think," said
  Bruno.</p>
  <p>"在這裡——你——閉嘴讓一個人思考，" 布魯諾這麼說。</p>
  <p>Roma tried to rise. She could not. Then she tried to
  cry<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00374" title=
  "294"><a id="Page_294" title="294"></a></span> out something, but
  her tongue clave to the roof of her mouth. Would Bruno break down
  at the last moment?</p>
  <p>"羅馬試圖站起來，但是她不能。然後她試著喊出一些東西，但是她的舌頭卻黏在了嘴巴的上腔。布魯諾會在最後一刻崩潰嗎？"</p>
  <p>Bruno, whose face was convulsed with agony, began to laugh in
  a delirious way. "So my friend is false to me, is he? Very well,
  I'll be revenged."</p>
  <p>布魯諾的臉因極度的痛苦而扭曲，他開始瘋狂地笑。"所以我的朋友對我不忠，是嗎？很好，我將報仇。"</p>
  <p>He reeled a little and the letter dropped from his hand,
  floated a moment in the air, and fell to the ground a pace or two
  farther on.</p>
  <p>他稍微搖晃了一下，信從他的手中滑落，懸浮在空中片刻，然後掉到了一兩步之外的地上。</p>
  <p>"Yes, by God, I'll be revenged," he cried, and he laughed
  again.</p>
  <p>"是的，我發誓，我將報仇，"他大叫，然後又笑了。</p>
  <p>He stopped, lifted one leg, seemed to pull at his boot, and
  again stood erect.</p>
  <p>他停下來，抬起一隻腿，好像在拉他的靴子，然後再次站直。</p>
  <p>"I always knew the hour would come when I should find myself
  in a tight place, and I've always kept something about me to help
  me to get out of it. Here it is now."</p>
  <p>"我一直都知道將會有那麼個時刻，我會陷入困境，因此我總是留有一些手段來幫我走出困局。現在就是那個時候了。"</p>
  <p>In an instant, before any one could be aware of what he was
  doing, he had uncorked a small bottle which he held in his hand
  and swallowed the contents.</p>
  <p>在一瞬間，還未有人察覺他的動作，他已經拔開手中一小瓶的瓶塞並喝下了裡面的內容。</p>
  <p>"Long live David Rossi!" he cried, and he flung the empty
  bottle over his head.</p>
  <p>他高呼「大衛·羅西萬歲！」，然後他把空瓶子扔了出去。</p>
  <p>Everybody was on his feet in a moment. It was too late. In
  thirty seconds the poison had begun its work, and Bruno was
  reeling in the arms of the Carabineers. Somebody called for a
  doctor. Somebody else called for a priest.</p>
  <p>
  "所有人都在一瞬間站了起來。可是已經太晚了。在三十秒內，毒藥就開始起作用，布魯諾在兵士的懷裡搖搖晃晃。有人呼喊要找醫生。另一個人叫喊要找神父。"</p>
  <p>"That's all right," said Bruno. "God is a good old saint.
  He'll look after a poor devil like me." Then he began to
  sing:—</p>
  <p>"沒關係，"布魯諾說，"神是個善良的老聖人。他會照顧像我這樣的可憐鬼。"然後他開始唱歌。</p>
  <p style="margin-left:2em">"The tombs are uncovered,<br />
  <span style="margin-left: 1em;">The dead arise,</span><br />
  The martyrs are rising<br />
  <span style="margin-left: 1em;">Before our
  eyes."</span><br /></p>
  <p style="margin-left:2em">"墓穴被揭開， 死者復活， 烈士正在崛起 在我們的眼前。"</p>
  <p>"Long live David Rossi!" he cried again, and at the next
  moment he was being carried out of court.</p>
  <p>"萬歲，萬歲，大衛·羅西！"他再次高呼，下一刻他被帶出了法庭。</p>
  <p>In the tumult that ensued everybody was standing in the well
  of the judges' horse-shoe table. The deaf old woman, with her
  shawls slipping off her shoulders, was wringing her hands and
  crying. "God will think of this," she said. The Garibaldian was
  gazing vacantly out of his rheumy eyes and saying nothing. Roma,
  who had recovered control of herself, was looking at the letter,
  which she had picked up from the floor.</p>
  <p>
  在接下的混亂中，每個人都站在法官席的馬蹄形桌子的深處。那位聾的老婦人，披肩從她的肩膀滑下，正在揮舞她的雙手並哭喊。她說：“上帝將會想起這件事。”
  Garibaldian回頭凝視著他那朦朧的眼睛，一句話都沒有說。Roma已經重新控制了自己，她正在看她從地板上撿起的信。</p>
</body>
</html>
