<?xml version='1.0' encoding='utf-8'?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml">
<head>
<meta charset="utf-8"/><title>
      The Project Gutenberg eBook of The Eternal City, by Hall Caine.
    </title>
<link href="190020258907861868_eternal-cover.jpg" id="id-3637337646521578331" rel="icon" type="image/x-cover"/><link href="0.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="1.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<link href="pgepub.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
<meta content="Ebookmaker 0.12.36 by Project Gutenberg" name="generator"/>
</head>
<body class="x-ebookmaker x-ebookmaker-3"><h3 id="pgepubid00202">XIII</h3>
<p>The little Piazza of Trinità de' Monti was full of carriages, and Roma's
rooms were thronged. David Rossi entered with the calmness of a man who
is accustomed to personal observation, but Roma met him with an almost
extravagant salutation.</p><p>"特里尼塔·德·蒙蒂小廣場上停滿了馬車，羅馬的房間裡人頭湧湧。大衛·羅西以一個習慣於個人觀察的人的鎮定進入，但羅馬以幾乎過分的招呼迎接他。"</p>
<p>"Ah, you have come at last," she said in a voice that was intended to be
heard by all. And then, in a low tone, she added, "Stay near me, and
don't go until I say you may."</p><p>"啊，你終於來了，"她大聲說道，意在讓所有人都聽到。然後，她低聲補充說："待在我身邊，不要在我說你可以走之前離開。"</p>
<p>Her face had the expression that had puzzled him the day before, but
with the flushed cheeks, the firm mouth and the shining eyes, there was
now a strange look of excitement, almost of hysteria.</p><p>她的臉上帶著他昨天困惑的表情，但現在，搭配上那雙發亮的眼睛，堅定的嘴唇以及臉頰泛紅，卻顯得有種奇異的興奮，近乎歇斯底里的樣子。</p>
<p>The company was divided into four main groups. The<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00203" title="154"><a id="Page_154" title="154"></a></span> first of them
consisted of Roma's aunt, powdered and perfumed, propped up with
cushions on an invalid chair, and receiving the guests by the door, with
the Baron Bonelli, silent and dignified, but smiling his icy smile, by
her side. A second group consisted of Don Camillo and some ladies of
fashion, who stood by the window and made little half-smothered trills
of laughter. The third group included Lena and Olga, the journalists,
with Madame Sella, the modiste; and the fourth group was made up of the
English and American Ambassadors, Count Mario, and some other
diplomatists.</p><p>`該公司被劃分為四個主要組別。第一個組別由羅馬的阿姨組成，她灑了香粉，噴了香水，用靠墊撐在一把病患椅上，在門口迎接客人，旁邊是巴羅內利男爵，他沉默而有尊嚴，但面帶冷漠的微笑。第二個組別由Don Camillo和一些時尚女士組成，她們站在窗邊，做出小小的半堵住的笑聲。第三個組別包括莉娜和奧爾加，這兩位記者，以及Madame Sella，這位時裝設計師；而第四個組別由英國和美國的大使，馬里奧伯爵，和其他一些外交官組成。`</p>
<p>The conversation was at first interrupted by the little pauses that
follow fresh arrivals; and after it had settled down to the dull buzz of
a beehive, when the old brood and her queen are being turned out, it
consisted merely of hints, giving the impression of something in the air
that was scandalous and amusing, but could not be talked about.</p><p>`這場對話最初被新到者的小小中斷打斷了；待它平息為像蜂巢中被趕出的老一輩和女王一樣的單調嗡嗡聲後，它只是由一些暗示組成，給人一種空氣中存在著一些醜聞和有趣的事，但不能被談論的印象。`</p>
<p>"Have you heard that" ... "Is it true that" ... "No?" "Can it be
possible?" "How delicious!" and then inaudible questions and low
replies, with tittering, tapping of fans, and insinuating glances.</p><p>「你有聽說過……」「這是真的嗎……」「沒有？」「這可能嗎？」「太美味了！」然後是聽不見的問題和低聲的回答，伴隨著咯咯的笑聲，扇子的輕拍聲，以及暗示性的眼神。</p>
<p>But Roma seemed to hear everything that was said about her, and
constantly broke in upon a whispered conversation with disconcerting
openness.</p><p>但是羅馬似乎聽到了所有關於她的言談，並且常常以令人困擾的開放態度打斷低聲細語的對話。</p>
<p>"That man here!" said one of the journalists at Rossi's entrance. "In
the same room with the Prime Minister!" said another. "After that
disgraceful scene in the House, too!"</p><p>"那個男人在這裡！"一位新聞記者在羅西進入時說。"還和總理在同一個房間裡！"另一位說。"在那種恥辱的場面之後，也太過分了！"</p>
<p>"I hear that he was abominably rude to the Baron the other day," said
Madame Sella.</p><p>"我聽說他前幾天對男爵極其粗魯，"瑪達姆·塞拉說。</p>
<p>"Rude? He has blundered shockingly, and offended everybody. They tell me
the Vatican is now up in arms against him, and is going to denounce him
and all his ways."</p><p>"粗魯？他犯了非常大的錯誤，冒犯了所有人。他們告訴我，現在梵蒂岡已經對他義憤填膺，打算譴責他和他所有的行為。"</p>
<p>"No wonder! He has made himself thoroughly disagreeable, and I'm only
surprised that the Prime Minister...."</p><p>"難怪！他使自己變得非常令人討厭，我只對首相感到驚訝...."</p>
<p>"Oh, leave the Prime Minister alone. He has something up his sleeve....
Haven't you heard why we are invited here to-day? No? Not heard that...."</p><p>"哦，別管總理了。他一定有妙計未出....
你沒聽說我們今天為什麼被邀請來這裡嗎？沒有？沒聽說那個...."</p>
<p>"Really! So that explains ... I see, I see!" and then more tittering and
tapping of fans.</p><p>"真的！所以那就解釋了...我看，我看！"然後有更多的竊笑和扇子的敲擊聲。</p>
<p>"Certainly, he is an extraordinary man, and one of the first statesmen
in Europe."</p><p>"毫無疑問，他是一位不凡的人，也是歐洲的首屈一指的政治家。"</p>
<p>"It's so unselfish of you to say that," said Roma, flashing<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00204" title="155"><a id="Page_155" title="155"></a></span> round
suddenly, "for the Minister has never been a friend of journalists, and
I've heard him say that there wasn't one of them who wouldn't sell his
mother's honour if he thought he could make a sensation."</p><p>"你能這麼不自私地說出這番話，我覺得非常感動，" Roma 預料中的突然間回答，"因為部長從來就不友好待待記者，我聽他說過，沒有一個記者不會出賣自己母親的榮譽，只要他認為可以因此造成轟動。"</p>
<p>"Love?" said the voice of Don Camillo in the silence that followed
Roma's remark. "What has marriage to do with love except to spoil it?"
And then, amidst laughter, and the playful looks of the ladies by whom
he was surrounded, he gave a gay picture of his own poverty, and the
necessity of marrying to retrieve his fortunes.</p><p>"愛情？"唐卡米洛的聲音在羅馬的評論後的寂靜中響起。"婚姻和愛情有什麼關係，除了破壞它之外？"然後，在笑聲和被包圍的女士們的玩笑目光中，他描繪了自己的貧窮以及嫁人挽救自己財務的必要性的生動畫面。</p>
<p>"What would you have? Look at my position! A great name, as ancient as
history, and no income. A gorgeous palace, as old as the pyramids, and
no cook!"</p><p>"你想讓我怎麼辦？看看我的處境！我擁有的只是一個歷史般悠久的大名，但卻無任何收入。一個與金字塔一樣古老的華麗宮殿，卻沒有一個廚師！"</p>
<p>"Don't be so conceited about your poverty, Gi-gi," said Roma. "Some of
the Roman ladies are as poor as the men. As for me, Madame Sella could
sell up every stick in my house to-morrow, and if the Municipality
should throw up my fountain...."</p><p>"不要因為你的貧窮而自負，吉吉，"羅馬說。"有些羅馬的女士們，和男人們一樣窮。至於我，如果塞拉夫人甚至在明天購買我房子中的每一樣東西，以及如果市政府填平我的噴泉的話...."</p>
<p>"Senator Palomba," said Felice's sepulchral voice from the door.</p><p>"帕隆巴參議員," 費利斯從門口發出的聲音低沉如墓誌銘。</p>
<p>The suave, oily little Mayor came in, twinkling his eyes and saying:</p><p>那位光滑狡猾的小市長進來了，眼睛閃閃發亮，說道:</p>
<p>"Did I hear my name as I entered?"</p><p>"我進入時，是不是聽到了我的名字?"</p>
<p>"I was saying," said Roma, "that if the Municipality should throw up my
fountain...."</p><p>"我正在說，" 羅馬說，"如果市政府應該放棄我的 噴泉 ...."`</p>
<p>The little man made an amusing gesture, and the constrained silence was
broken by some awkward laughter.</p><p>那個小男人做了一個有趣的手勢，尷尬的沉默被一些笨拙的笑聲打破。</p>
<p>"Roma," said the testy voice of the Countess, "I think I've done my duty
by you, and now the Baron will take me back. Natalina! Where's
Natalina?"</p><p>"羅馬，"伯爵夫人的聲音有些不悅地說，"我想我已經盡了我的義務，現在男爵將帶我回去。Natalina！Natalina在哪裡？"</p>
<p>But half-a-dozen hands took hold of the invalid chair, and the Baron
followed it into the bedroom.</p><p>但是有半打人的手抓住了病人的椅子，男爵跟隨它走進了臥室。</p>
<p>"Wonderful man!" "Wonderful!" whispered various voices as the Minister's
smile disappeared through the door.</p><p>"了不起的人！" "了不起！" 各種聲音低聲細語，隨著部長的微笑透過門消失。</p>
<p>The conversation had begun to languish when the Princess Bellini
arrived, and then suddenly it became lively and general.</p><p>當貝利尼公主到達時，對話已經開始變得索然無味，然後突然間，它變得生動而普遍。</p>
<p>"I'm late, but do you know, my dear," she said, kissing Roma on both
cheeks, "I've been nearly torn to pieces in coming. My carriage had to
plough its way through crowds of people."</p><p>"我遲到了，但你知道嗎，我的親愛的，"她說，並親吻了羅馬的兩頃，"我差點被撕成碎片來這裡。我的馬車不得不穿越擁擠的人群鋤路而行。"</p>
<p>"Crowds?"</p><p>"人群？"</p>
<p>"Yes, indeed, and the streets are nearly impassable. Another<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00205" title="156"><a id="Page_156" title="156"></a></span>
demonstration, I suppose! The poor must always be demonstrating."</p><p>"是的，而且街道幾乎無法通行。我猜又是另一個示威行動！窮人總是在示威。"</p>
<p>"Ah! yes," said Don Camillo. "Haven't you heard the news, Roma?"</p><p>"啊！對，"Don Camillo說。"你還沒聽說新聞嗎，羅馬？"</p>
<p>"I've been working all night and all day, and I have heard nothing,"
said Roma.</p><p>"我已經工作了一整晚一整天，我什麼都沒有聽到，"羅馬說。</p>
<p>"Well, to prevent a recurrence of the disgraceful scene of yesterday,
the King has promulgated the Public Security Act by royal decree, and
the wonderful crisis is at an end."</p><p>"為了防止昨天那種丟臉的情況再次發生，
國王已經透過皇家法令頒布了公共安全法，
而這次的驚人危機終於結束了。"</p>
<p>"And now?"</p><p>"現在呢？"</p>
<p>"Now the Prime Minister is master of the situation, and has begun by
proclaiming the mass meeting which was to have been held in the
Coliseum."</p><p>"現在，總理掌握了局勢，並開始宣佈原定在大競技場舉行的大會。"</p>
<p>"Good thing too," said Count Mario. "We've heard enough of liberal
institutions lately."</p><p>"還好呢，"馬里奧伯爵說。"我們最近已經聽夠了關於自由制度的事情。"</p>
<p>"And of the scandalous speeches of professional agitators," said Madame
Sella.</p><p>"關於專業煽動者的醜聞演說，"賽拉夫人說。</p>
<p>"And of the liberty of the press," said Senator Palomba. And then the
effeminate old dandy, the fashionable dressmaker, and the oily little
Mayor exchanged significant nods.</p><p>"至於新聞自由，"參議員帕隆巴如此說。接著，這位柔弱的老花花公子，時髦的服裝設計師，和油滑的小市長彼此意味深長地點了點頭。</p>
<p>"Wait! Only wait!" said Roma, in a low voice, to Rossi, who was standing
in silence by her side.</p><p>"等一等！只是等一等！"羅馬低聲對身邊沉默的羅西說。</p>
<p>"Unhappy Italy!" said the American Ambassador. "With the largest array
of titled nobility and the largest army of beggars. The one class
sipping iced drinks in the piazzas during the playing of music, and the
other class marching through the streets and conspiring against
society."</p><p>"不幸的義大利！"美國大使說道。"擁有最大規模的封建貴族和最多數量的乞丐。一個階級在廣場上飲用冰涼的飲料，享受音樂的演奏，而另一個階級卻在街頭行走，對社會進行陰謀。"</p>
<p>"You judge us from a foreign standpoint, dear friend," said Don Camillo,
"and forget our love of a pageant. The Princess says our poor are always
demonstrating. We are all always demonstrating. Our favourite
demonstration is a funeral, with drums beating and banners waving. If we
cannot have a funeral we have a wedding, with flowers and favours and
floods of tears. And when we cannot have either, we put up with a
revolution, and let our Radical orators tell us of the wickedness of
taxing the people's bread."</p><p>"你從外國的觀點來評估我們，親愛的朋友，"Don Camillo說，
"忘記了我們對鋪排的熱愛。公主說我們的窮人總是在示威。我們總是在示威。我們最喜歡的遊行就是葬禮，鼓聲響起，旗幟飄揚。如果我們不能有一場葬禮，我們就舉行婚禮，有花，有賀狀，有淹沒的淚水。而當我們既不能有葬禮也不能有婚禮時，我們就接受一場革命，讓我們的激進演說家告訴我們對人民的糧食進行徵稅的惡行。"</p>
<p>"Always their bread," said the Princess, with a laugh.</p><p>"公主笑著說，'總是他們的麵包。'"</p>
<p>"In America, dear General, you are so tragically sincere, but in Italy
we are a race of actors. The King, the Parliament, the Pope himself...."</p><p>"在美國，親愛的將軍，您如此悲劇性地真誠，但在義大利，我們是一個演員的種族。國王，議會，甚至教皇自己...."</p>
<p>"Shocking!" said the little Princess. "But if you had said as much of
our professional agitators...."</p><p>"令人震驚！"小公主說道。"但如果你對我們的專業煽動者說了同樣的話...."</p>
<p>"Oh, they are the most accomplished and successful actors,<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00206" title="157"><a id="Page_157" title="157"></a></span> Princess.
But we are all actors in Italy, from the greatest to the least, and the
'curtain' is to him who can score off everybody else."</p><p>"噢，他們是最有才華和成功的演員，公主。但在義大利，我們都是演員，從最偉大到最微小的。而'幕布'就是給那些能比其他所有人更出色的人。"</p>
<p>"So," began the American, "to be Prime Minister in Rome...."</p><p>"那麼，"美國人開始說，"在羅馬當首相...."</p>
<p>"Is to be the chief actor in Europe, and his leading part is that in
which he puts an end to his adversary amidst a burst of inextinguishable
laughter."</p><p>"他是歐洲的主要行動者，他的主要部分就是在無法抑制的笑聲中結束他的對手。"</p>
<p>"What is he driving at?" said the English to the American Ambassador.</p><p>"他想表達什麼意思？"英國人對美國大使說。</p>
<p>"Don't you know? Haven't you heard what is coming?" And then some
further whispering.</p><p>"你不知道嗎？你沒有聽說過即將發生的事情嗎？"然後，又低聲細語了一些內容。</p>
<p>"Wait, only wait!" said Roma.</p><p>"等等，只是等等！"羅馬說。</p>
<p>"Gi-gi," said the Princess, "how stupid you are! You're all wrong about
Roma. Look at her now. To think that men can be so blind! And the Baron
is no better than the rest of you. He's too proud to believe what I tell
him, but he'll learn the truth some day. He is here, of course? In the
Countess's room, isn't he?... How do you like my dress?"</p><p>"吉吉,"公主說，"你真笨！你對羅馬的看法完全錯了。看看她現在的情況。難以想像男人們可以如此短視！男爵也不比你們好多少。他太驕傲，不願相信我所說的，但總有一天他會明白真相的。他在這裡，對嗎？他在伯爵夫人的房間裡，對嗎？…你覺得我的衣服如何？"</p>
<p>"It's perfect."</p><p>"這是完美的。"</p>
<p>"Really? The black and the blue make a charming effect, don't they? They
are the Baron's favourite colours. How agitated our hostess is! She
seems to have all the world here. When are we to see the wonderful work?
What's she waiting for? Ah, there's the Baron coming out at last!"</p><p>"真的嗎？黑色和藍色搭配起來效果很迷人，對吧？這是男爵最喜歡的顏色。我們的女主人似乎非常興奮！她好像邀請了全世界的人一樣。我們什麼時候能看到那奇妙的作品呢？她在等待些什麼？啊，看，男爵終於出現了!"</p>
<p>"They're all here, aren't they?" said Roma, looking round with flushed
cheeks and flaming eyes at the jangling, slandering crew, who had
insulted and degraded David Rossi.</p><p>"他們都在這裡，不是嗎?" 羅馬一邊說，一邊臉紅的望著那些吵吵鬧鬧、毀謗的人群，他們曾侮辱和貶低了大衛·羅西。</p>
<p>"Take care," he answered, but she only threw up her head and laughed.</p><p>"小心點，"他回答，但她只是抬起頭來笑。</p>
<p>Then the company went down the circular iron staircase to the studio.
Roma walked first with her rapid step, talking nervously and laughing
frequently.</p><p>然後，公司的人們沿著圓形的鐵梯下到了工作室。 羅馬以她迅速的步伐走在前面，邊走邊緊張地說話，而且經常笑。</p>
<p>The fountain stood in the middle of the floor, and the guests gathered
about it.</p><p>那座噴泉位於房間的中央，賓客們聚集在其周圍。</p>
<p>"Superb!" they exclaimed one after another. "Superb!" "Superb!"</p><p>"極好!" 他們一個接一個地驚歎。 "極好!" "極好!"</p>
<p>The little Mayor was especially enthusiastic. He stood near the Baron,
and holding up both hands he cried:</p><p>小市長特別熱情。他站在男爵旁邊，雙手高舉，大聲地喊叫:</p>
<p>"Marvellous! Miraculous! Fit to take its place beside the masterpieces
of old Rome!"</p><p>"精彩絕倫！令人驚奇！足以與古羅馬的傑作並駕齊驅！"</p>
<p>"But surely this is 'Hamlet' without the prince," said<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00207" title="158"><a id="Page_158" title="158"></a></span> the Baron. "You
set out to make a fountain representing Christ and His twelve apostles,
and the only figure you leave unfinished is Christ Himself."</p><p>"但這豈不是'哈姆雷特'劇中沒了王子？"男爵說道，"你要製作一個代表基督和他的十二門徒的噴泉，但你唯一未完成的就是基督自己的雕像。"</p>
<p>He pointed to the central figure above the dish, which was merely shaped
out and indicated.</p><p>他指向了碟子上方的中央人物，這個人物只不過被塑造出來並顯示出來。</p>
<p>"Not only one, your Excellency," said Don Camillo. "Here is another
unfinished figure—intended for Judas, apparently."</p><p>"不只一個，閣下，"當卡米洛說。“這裡還有一個未完成的人物——顯然是打算畫成猶達的。”</p>
<p>"I left them to the last on purpose," said Roma. "They were so
important, and so difficult. But I have studies for both of them in the
boudoir, and you shall give me your advice and opinion."</p><p>"我故意把他們留到最後，"羅馬說，"他們是如此重要，又如此困難。但我在化妝室裡有他們的研究，你將給我你的建議和觀點。"</p>
<p>"The saint and the satyr, the God and the devil, the betrayed and the
betrayer—what subjects for the chisel of the artist!" said Don Camillo.</p><p>"聖人與山羊神, 神與魔鬼，被背叛者與背叛者 - 這些是雕刻家的刀鑿主題!" 該話是Don Camillo說的。</p>
<p>"Just so," said the Mayor. "She must do the one with all the emotions of
love, and the other with all the faculties of hate."</p><p>"正是如此," 市長說。"她必須將所有的愛情情感都放在其中一個上，而另一個則要懷有所有憎恨的能力。"</p>
<p>"Not that art," said Don Camillo, "has anything to do with life—that is
to say, real life...."</p><p>"那種藝術，"唐·卡米洛說，"與生活——也就是說，真實的生活......無關。"</p>
<p>"Why not?" said Roma sharply. "The artist has to live in the world, and
he isn't blind. Therefore, why shouldn't he describe what he sees around
him?"</p><p>"為什麼不可以？" 羅馬尖銳地說。"藝術家必須活在世界上，他並不是瞎子。因此，他為什麼不應該描述他周圍所見到的事物呢?"</p>
<p>"But is that art? If so, the artist is at liberty to give his views on
religion and politics, and by the medium of his art he may even express
his private feelings—return insults and wreak revenge."</p><p>"但那是藝術嗎？如果是的話，藝術家就有自由去表達他對宗教和政治的觀點，甚至可以透過他的藝術媒介表達他的私人感情——回應侮辱和報仇。"</p>
<p>"Certainly he may," said Roma; "the greatest artists have often done
so." Saying this, she led the way upstairs, and the others followed with
a chorus of hypocritical approval.</p><p>"當然他可以," 羅馬說，"最偉大的藝術家常常這麼做。"說完，她引領著向樓上走去，其他人帶著虛偽的贊同聲跟隨著。</p>
<p>"It's only human, to say the least." "Of course it is!" "If she's a
woman and can't speak out, or fight duels, it's a lady-like way, at all
events." And then further tittering, tapping of fans, and significant
nods at Rossi when his back was turned.</p><p>"至少可以說是人性。” “當然是！” “如果她是女人，不能說出來，也不能進行決鬥，那至少這是淑女的方式。” 接著是更多的傻笑，扇子的輕敲聲，以及在羅西背對時，做出意味深長的點頭。</p>
<p>Two busts stood on pedestals in the boudoir. One of them was covered
with a damp cloth, the other with a muslin veil. Going up to the latter
first, Roma said, with a slightly quavering voice:</p><p>兩個半身像立在臥室的基座上。 其中一個用濕布覆蓋，另一個用紗布面紗覆蓋。 首先走到後者面前，羅馬用微微顫抖的聲音說：</p>
<p>"It was so difficult to do justice to the Christ that I am almost sorry
I made the attempt. But it came easier when I began to think of some one
who was being reviled and<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00208" title="159"><a id="Page_159" title="159"></a></span> humiliated and degraded because he was poor
and wasn't ashamed of it, and who was always standing up for the weak
and the down-trodden, and never returning anybody's insult, however
shameful and false and wicked, because he wasn't thinking of himself at
all. So I got the best model I could in real life, and this is the
result."</p><p>"對於基督的描繪如此困難，我幾乎感到遺憾我有所嘗試。但是，當我開始思考某個一直被羞辱、輕視和貶褻，只是因為他貧窮而且對此並不感到羞恥，並且總是站在弱者和被壓迫者的一方，無論有多麼無恥、虛假和邪惡的侮辱，他從不還擊，因為他完全沒有考慮自己。所以我找了現實生活中最好的模型，這就是結果。”</p>
<p>With that she pulled off the muslin veil and revealed the sculptured
head of David Rossi, in a snow-white plaster cast. The features
expressed pure nobility, and every touch was a touch of sympathy and
love.</p><p>她隨即揭下薄紗，露出了大衛·羅西的雕塑頭部，那是一個雪白的石膏像。其面部表達出的是純粹的高貴，每一處都充滿了同情和愛。</p>
<p>A moment of chilling silence was followed by an under-breath of gossip.
"Who is it?" "Christ, of course." "Oh, certainly, but it reminds me of
some one." "Who can it be?" "The Pope?" "Why, no; don't you see who it
is?" "Is it really?" "How shameful!" "How blasphemous!"</p><p>一股讓人毛骨悚然的寂靜過後，下焦的閒話便隨之而來。「是誰呢?」「當然是耶穌基督。」「哎喲，毫無疑問，但他讓我想起了某人。」「到底是誰呢？」「教皇？」「何必呢，你不認出他是誰嗎？」「真的嗎？」「真可恥！」「簡直是褻瀆！」</p>
<p>Roma stood looking on with a face lighted up by two flaming eyes. "I'm
afraid you don't think I've done justice to my model," she said. "That's
quite true. But perhaps my Judas will please you better," and she
stepped up to the bust that was covered by the wet cloth.</p><p>"羅馬站在那裡，臉上兩隻熾熱的眼睛照亮了整個臉。她說，"我擔心你認為我沒有公正對待我的模特。"這的確是事實。但也許我的猶大會讓你更滿意，"然後她走向被濕布覆蓋的半身像。"</p>
<p>"I found this a difficult subject also, and it was not until yesterday
evening that I felt able to begin on it."</p><p>"我發現這也是一個困難的主題，直到昨天晚上我才感到可以開始著手進行。"</p>
<p>Then, with a hand that trembled visibly, she took from the wall the
portrait of her father, and offering it to the Minister, she said:</p><p>然後，她的手明顯地顫抖著，從牆上取下父親的畫像，並把它呈給部長，她說：</p>
<p>"Some one told me a story of duplicity and treachery—it was about this
poor old gentleman, Baron—and then I knew what sort of person it was
who betrayed his friend and master for thirty pieces of silver, and
listened to the hypocrisy, and flattery, and lying of the miserable
group of parasites who crowded round him because he was a traitor, and
because he kept the purse."</p><p>"有人向我講述了一個充滿詭詐和背叛的故事——關於這位可憐的老紳士，巴倫——然後我才知道，誰是那種出賣朋友和主人只換取三十枚銀幣的人，他聽著那些悲慘的寄生蟲們的偽善、諂媚和謊言，他們圍著他，因為他是一個叛徒，又掌管著錢袋。"</p>
<p>With that she threw off the damp cloth, and revealed the clay model of a
head. The face was unmistakable, but it expressed every
baseness—cunning, arrogance, cruelty, and sensuality.</p><p>隨著她拿掉濕布，露出了一個泥土頭部模型。那張臉絕對無誤，但表現出所有的卑下——狡詐，傲慢，殘忍和感官。</p>
<p>The silence was freezing, and the company began to turn away, and to
mutter among themselves, in order to cover their confusion. "It's the
Baron!" "No?" "Yes." "Disgraceful!" "Disgusting!" "Shocking!" "A
scarecrow!"</p><p>這種寂靜令人感到寒冷，眾人開始轉身離去，彼此小聲交談，以此來掩蓋他們的困惑。"這是男爵！""不是吧？""是的。""太丟人了！""令人厭惡！""震驚！""稻草人！"</p>
<p>Roma watched them for a moment, and then said: "You don't like my Judas?
Neither do I. You're right—it <i>is</i> disgusting."<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00209" title="160"><a id="Page_160" title="160"></a></span></p><p>羅馬看了他們一會兒，然後說：“你們不喜歡我的猶大吧？
我也是。你們說得對，它的確令人厭惡。”</p>
<p>And taking up in both hands a piece of thin wire, she cut the clay
across, and the upper part of it fell face downward with a thud on to
the floor.</p><p>她雙手拿起一條細鐵絲，劈開了黏土。黏土的上半部分砰的一聲掉到了地板上，臉朝下。</p>
<p>The Princess, who stood by the side of the Baron, offered him her
sympathy, and he answered in his icy smile:</p><p>"站在男爵旁邊的公主對他表達了同情，他冷冷地笑了笑回答："</p>
<p>"But these artists are all slightly insane, you know. That is an evil
which must be patiently endured, without noticing too much the ludicrous
side of it."</p><p>"但是，你知道，這些藝術家都有點瘋狂。這是一種必須耐心忍受的邪惡，而不能過分關注它的荒謬一面。"</p>
<p>Then, stepping up to Roma, and handing back the portrait, the Baron
said, with a slight frown:</p><p>"然後，男爵走到羅馬面前，把肖像還給她，皺著眉頭說："</p>
<p>"I must thank you for a very amusing afternoon, and bid you good-day."</p><p>"我必須感謝您讓我度過了一個非常有趣的下午，並向您說聲再見。"</p>
<p>The others looked after him, and interpreted his departure according to
their own feelings. "He is done with her," they whispered. "He'll pay
her out for this." And without more ado they began to follow him.</p><p>其他人看著他離開，並根據自己的感覺來解釋他的離去。他們低聲說道：“他已經對她無所謂了，” “他會為此報復她。”然後，他們毫不猶豫地開始追隨他。</p>
<p>Roma, flushed and excited, bowed to them as they went out one by one,
with a politeness that was demonstrative to the point of caricature. She
was saying farewell to them for ever, and her face was lighted up with a
look of triumphant joy. They tried to bear themselves bravely as they
passed her, but her blazing eyes and sweeping curtseys made them feel as
if they were being turned out of the house.</p><p>"羅馬，臉色激動並且興奮，向他們鞠躬表示敬禮，一個個離開，在禮貌上來說，她的動作誇張到了諷刺的地步。她正在永遠地向他們道別，她的臉上洋溢著勝利的喜悅。他們試圖在經過她身邊時保持鎮定，但她熾熱的目光和大步行走讓他們感到好像被趕出了房子。"</p>
<p>When they were all gone, she shut the door with a bang, and then turning
to David Rossi, who alone remained, she burst into a flood of hysterical
tears, and threw herself on to her knees at his feet.</p><p>當他們全都離開後，她猛地關上門，然後轉向唯一留下的大衛·羅西，她突然病態地痛哭起來，並跪在他的腳前。</p>
<h3 id="pgepubid00210">XIV</h3>
<p>"David!" she cried.</p><p>"大衛!"她哭喊著。</p>
<p>"Don't do that. Get up," he answered.</p><p>"不要那樣做。起來，"他回答。</p>
<p>His thoughts were in a whirl. He had been standing aside, trembling for
Roma as he had never trembled for himself in the hottest moments of his
public life. And now he was alone with her, and his blood was beating in
his breast in stabs.</p><p>他的思緒亂轉。他從旁邊看著，為了Roma的震顫，他從未在他公眾生活中最激烈的時刻為自己震顫過。現在他與她獨處，他的血在他的胸部狂跳。</p>
<p>"Haven't I done enough?" she cried. "You taunted me with my wealth, but
I am as poor as you are now. Every penny I had in the world came from
the Baron. He allowed me to use part of the revenues of my father's
estates, but the income was under his control, and now he will stop it
altogether. I am in debt. I have always been in debt. That was<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00211" title="161"><a id="Page_161" title="161"></a></span> my
benefactor's way of reminding me of my dependence on his bounty. And now
all <i>I</i> have will be sold to satisfy my creditors, and I shall be turned
out homeless."</p><p>"`我已經做得夠多了嗎？"她哭喊著。"你用我的財富嘲笑我，但現在我和你一樣貧窮。我在這個世界上擁有的每一分錢都來自男爵。他讓我使用父親的財產的部分收入，但是收入是在他的控制下，現在他將完全停止它。我處於債務之中。我一直都處於債務之中。這是我的恩人提醒我對他慷慨的依賴。現在我所有的東西都將被賣掉來滿足我的債權人，我將被趕出去無家可歸。"`</p>
<p>"Roma...." he began, but her tears and passion bore down everything.</p><p>"羅馬...." 他開始說，但她的眼淚和激情壓倒了一切。</p>
<p>"House, furniture, presents, carriages, horses, everything will go soon,
and I shall have nothing whatever! No matter! You said a woman loved
ease and wealth and luxury. Is that all a woman loves? Is there nothing
else in the world for any of us? Aren't you satisfied with me at last?"</p><p>"房子，傢俱，禮物，馬車，馬匹，所有的東西很快就會不見，我將一無所有！沒關係！你說女人愛舒適，愛財富和奢侈。那就是女人所愛的所有東西嗎？我們中的其他人在世界上還有其他什麼嗎？你對我終於滿意了嗎？"</p>
<p>"Roma," he answered, breathing hard, "don't talk like that. I cannot
bear it."</p><p>"羅馬，"他回答，喘息著，"別那樣說。我無法承受。"</p>
<p>But she did not listen. "You taunted me with being a woman," she said
through a fresh burst of tears. "A woman was incapable of friendship and
sacrifices. She was intended to be a man's plaything. Do you think I
want to be my husband's mistress? I want to be his wife, to share his
fate, whatever it may be, for good or bad, for better or worse."</p><p>但她沒有聽。她哭著說：“你嘲笑我是個女人，說女人無法理解友情和犧牲。你說女人只是男人的玩物。你以為我想成為我丈夫的情婦嗎？我想成為他的妻子，無論命運如何，無論好壞，無論順逆都與他共享。”</p>
<p>"For God's sake, Roma!" he cried. But she broke in on him again.</p><p>"看在上帝的份上，羅馬!"他哭喊道。但她再次打斷了他的話。</p>
<p>"You taunted me with the dangers you had to go through, as if a woman
must needs be an impediment to her husband, and try to keep him back. Do
you think I want my husband to do nothing? If he were content with that
he would not be the man I had loved, and I should despise him and leave
him."</p><p>"你嘲笑我，說你必須面對的危險，好像一個女人一定會阻礙她的丈夫，並試圖阻止他前進。你認為我希望我的丈夫什麼都不做嗎？如果他對此感到滿足，那他就不再是我所愛的人，我會鄙視他並離開他。"</p>
<p>"Roma!..."</p><p>"羅馬！..."</p>
<p>"Then <i>you</i> taunted me with the death that hangs over you. When you were
gone I should be left to the mercy of the world. But that can never
happen. Never! Do you think a woman can outlive the man she loves as I
love you?... There! I've said it. You've shamed me into it."</p><p>"然後你以懸在你身上的死亡來嘲笑我。當你離開，我將必須面對世界的慈悲。但那永遠不會發生。永遠不！你認為一個女人能比她愛的男人活得長嗎，就像我愛你一樣？... 就這樣！我已經說出來了。你已經讓我感到羞愧了。"</p>
<p>He could not speak now. His words were choking in his throat, and she
went on in a torrent of tears:</p><p>他現在無法說話。他的話語在他的喉嚨裡哽咽，而她在淚水的洪流中繼續說下去：</p>
<p>"The death that threatens you comes from no fault of yours, but only
from your fidelity to my father. Therefore I have a right to share it,
and I will not live when you are dead."</p><p>"威脅你的死亡並不是你的錯誤，只是因為你對我父親的忠貞。因此，我有權共享它，當你死了，我將不再活著。"</p>
<p>"If I give way now," he thought, "all is over."</p><p>"如果我現在退讓,"他想,"一切都將結束。"</p>
<p>And clenching his hands behind his back to keep himself from throwing
his arms around her, he began in a low voice:</p><p>"並且將他的雙手緊握在他的背後，以防自己擁抱她，他以低沉的聲音開始說話:"</p>
<p>"Roma, you have broken your promise to me."</p><p>"羅馬，你已經違背了對我的承諾。"</p>
<p>"I <i>don't</i> care," she interrupted. "I would break ten<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00212" title="162"><a id="Page_162" title="162"></a></span> thousand
promises. I deceived you. I confess it. I pretended to be reconciled to
your will, and I was not reconciled. I wanted you to see me strip myself
of all I had, that you might have no answer and excuse. Well, you have
seen me do it, and now ... what are you going to do <i>now</i>?"</p><p>"我不在乎，"她打斷了他的話。"我可以背棄一萬次的承諾。我欺騙了你，我承認。我假裝接受了你的意志，但事實上我並未接受。我希望你能看到我剝去我所有的一切，這樣你就無法再有任何回答和藉口。好了，你已經看到我這樣做了，那麼...你現在要怎麼辦？"</p>
<p>"Roma," he began again, trembling all over, "there have been two men in
me all this time, and one of them has been trying to protect you from
the world and from yourself, while the other ... the other has been
wanting you to despise all his objections, and trample them under your
feet.... If I could only believe that you know all you are doing, all
the risk you are running, and the fate you are willing to share ... but
no, it is impossible."</p><p>"羅馬，"他又開始說，全身震顫，"這段時間我內心存在兩個男人，其中一個試圖保護你不受到世界和你自己的傷害，而另一個...另一個希望你能藐視他所有的反對，將其踩在腳下... 如果我能相信你知道你正在做的一切，知道你正在冒的所有風險，以及你願意承擔的命達...但不，這是不可能的。"</p>
<p>"David," she cried, "you love me! If you didn't love me, I should know
it now—at this moment. But I am braver than you are...."</p><p>"大衛，"她哭叫道，"你愛我！如果你不愛我，我現在就會知道...在這一刻。但是我比你更勇敢...."</p>
<p>"Let me go. I cannot answer for myself."</p><p>"讓我走。我無法為我自己回答。"</p>
<p>"I am braver than you are, for I have not only stripped myself of all my
possessions, and of all my friends ... I have even compromised myself
again and again, and been daring and audacious, and rude to everybody
for your sake.... I, a woman ... while you, a man ... you are afraid ...
yes, afraid ... you are a coward—that's it, a coward!... No, no, no!
What am I saying?... David Leone!"</p><p>"我比你更勇敢，因為我不僅放棄了所有的財產，和所有的朋友...我甚至多次冒著被妥協的風險，為了你，我一再大膽，冒昧，對每個人都粗魯....我，一個女人...而你，一個男人...你害怕...是的，害怕...你是一個懦夫！...不，不，不！我在說什麼？...大衛·利昂！"</p>
<p>And with a cry of passion and remorse she flung both arms about his
neck.</p><p>"她充滿激情與懊悔地大叫一聲，雙手猛然環抱他的脖子。"</p>
<p>He had stood, during this fierce struggle of love and pain, holding
himself in until his throbbing nerves could bear the strain no longer.</p><p>在這場狂熱的愛與痛苦的掙扎中，他始終忍耐著，直到他痛苦的神經再也無法承受這壓力。</p>
<p>"Come to me, then—come to me," he cried, and at the moment when she
threw herself upon him he stretched out his arms to receive her.</p><p>"那麼就到我這裡來——來到我這裡,"他痛呼，就在她撲向他的那一刻，他伸出雙臂來接住她。</p>
<p>"You do love me?" she said.</p><p>"你真的愛我嗎？" 她說。</p>
<p>"Indeed, yes! And you?"</p><p>"確實，是的！你呢？"</p>
<p>"Yes, yes, yes!"</p><p>"是的，是的，是的！"</p>
<p>He clasped her in his arms with redoubled ardour, and pressed her to his
breast and kissed her. The love so long pent up was bursting out like a
liberated cataract that sweeps the snow and the ice before it.</p><p>他以更強烈的熱情緊緊抱著她，將她緊貼在他的胸口並親吻她。這份積壓了許久的愛情如同被釋放出來的瀑布，將前方的雪和冰都沖散。</p>
<p>All at once the girl who had been so brave in the great battle of her
love became weak and womanish in the moment of her victory. Under the
warmth of his tenderness she<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00213" title="163"><a id="Page_163" title="163"></a></span> dropped her head on to his breast to
conceal her face in her shame.</p><p>"突然間，這個在她愛的偉大戰役中表現得如此勇敢的女孩，在她勝利的時刻變得軟弱和女性化。在他溫柔的照耀下，她低下頭，把臉藏在他的胸口，以隱藏自己的恥辱。"</p>
<p>"You will never think the worse of me?" she faltered.</p><p>"你永遠不會對我有不好的想法嗎？"她顫抖著問。</p>
<p>"The worse of you! For loving me?"</p><p>"你最壞！為了愛我？"</p>
<p>"For telling you so and forcing myself into your life?"</p><p>"因為對你說了這些並強迫自己進入你的生活嗎？"</p>
<p>"My darling, no!"</p><p>"親愛的，不！"</p>
<p>She lifted her head, and he kissed away the tears that were shining in
her eyes.</p><p>她抬起頭來，他吻去了她眼中閃著淚光。</p>
<p>"But tell me," he said, "are you sure—quite sure? Do you know what is
before you?"</p><p>"但告訴我,"他說,"你確定—完全確定嗎? 你知道你前面有什麼嗎?"</p>
<p>"I only know I love you."</p><p>"我只知道我愛你。"</p>
<p>He folded her afresh in his strong embrace, and kissed her head as it
lay on his breast.</p><p>他重新將她緊緊地擁入懷中，並親吻著她倚在他胸口的頭。</p>
<p>"Think again," he said. "A man's enemies can be merciless. They may
watch you and put pressure upon you, and even humiliate you for my
sake."</p><p>"再想一想，"他說。"一個人的敵人可以是無情的。他們可能會監視你，對你施加壓力，甚至因為我而羞辱你。"</p>
<p>"No matter, I am not afraid," she answered, and again he tightened his
arms about her in a passionate embrace, and covered her hair and her
neck and her hands and her finger-tips with kisses.</p><p>"無論如何，我並不害怕，"她回答，他再次熱情地將她抱在懷中，滿滿地吻了她的頭髮，她的頸部，她的手，還有她的指尖。</p>
<p>They did not speak for a long time after that. There was no need for
words. He was conquered, yet he was conqueror, and she was happy and at
peace. The long fight was over, and everything was well.</p><p>他們在那之後長時間未曾說話。沒有需要多餘的語言。他即使被征服，卻又是征服者，而她則感到快樂與平靜。那場漫長的戰鬥已經結束，一切都很好。</p>
<p>He put her to sit in a chair, and sat himself on the arm of it, with his
face to her face, and her arms still round his neck. It was like a
dream. She could scarcely believe it. He whom she had looked up to with
adoration was caressing her. She was like a child in her joy, blushing
and half afraid.</p><p>他讓她坐在椅子上，自己則坐在椅子的扶手上，臉對著她的臉，她的雙臂依然圍繞著他的脖子。這就像一場夢。她幾乎不能相信。她所敬仰的他正在撫摸她。她的喜悅就像一個孩子，臉紅並有些恐懼。</p>
<p>He ran his hand through her hair and kissed her forehead. She threw back
her head that she might put her lips to his forehead in return, and he
kissed her full, round throat.</p><p>他用手搭過她的頭髮，然後吻了她的額頭。她仰起頭，好讓她也可以回吻他的額頭，而他則吻了她豐滿、圓滑的喉嚨。</p>
<p>Then they exchanged rings as the sign of their eternal union. When she
put her diamond ring, set in gold, on to his finger, he looked grave and
even sad; but when he put his plain silver one on to hers, she lifted up
her glorified hand to the light, and kissed and kissed it.</p><p>然後他們互換戒指，作為他們永恆聯盟的象徵。當她將鑲有鑽石的黃金戒指戴在他的手指上時，他看起來嚴肅甚至悲傷;但是當他將他的純銀戒指戴在她的手指上時，她將她那被光芒照耀的手舉起來對著光線，並親吻著它，一遍又一遍。</p>
<p>They began to talk in low tones, as if some one had been listening. It
was the whispering of their hearts, for the angel of happy love has no
voice louder than a whisper. She asked him to say again that he loved
her, but as soon as he began to say it she stopped his mouth with a
kiss.<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00214" title="164"><a id="Page_164" title="164"></a></span></p><p>他們開始低聲交談，似乎有人在側耳傾聽。這是他們心中的低語，因為幸福的愛情之使者的聲音再大也只是低語。她要求他再次說出他愛她的話，但他剛開始說這話時，她就用吻封住了他的嘴。</p>
<p>They talked of their love. She was sure she had loved him before he
loved her, and when he said that he had loved her always, she protested
in that case he did not love her at all.</p><p>他們談論著他們的愛情。她確信在他愛她之前，她已經愛上他了，當他說他始終愛她時，她反駁說如果那樣的話他根本就不愛她。</p>
<p>They rose at length to close the windows, and side by side, his arm
about her waist, her head leaning lightly on his shoulder, they stood
for a moment looking out. The mother of cities lay below in its
lightsome whiteness, and over the ridge of its encircling hills the glow
of the departing sun was rising in vaporous tints of amber and crimson
into the transparent blue, with the dome of St. Peter's, like a balloon
ready to rise into a celestial sky.</p><p>他們終於站起來關窗，並肩並立，他的手臂環繞她的腰間，她的頭輕輕靠在他的肩膀上，他們美妙地觀賞了片刻。城市之母在下面的燈火裡呈現出白色的美麗，而在其包圍山脈的脊線上，離日的餘暉透著琥珀和深紅的色澤，升入透明的藍色中。聖彼得大教堂的圓頂就像一個準備升入天空的熱氣球。</p>
<p>"A storm is coming," he said, looking at the colours in the sunset.</p><p>"風暴即將來臨," 他說，看著日落的顏色。</p>
<p>"It has come and gone," she whispered, and then his arm folded closer
about her waist.</p><p>"它已經來過，又走了。"她低聲說，然後他的手臂更緊地圍繞著她的腰。</p>
<p>It took him half-an-hour to say adieu. After the last kiss and the last
handshake, their arms would stretch out to the utmost limit, and then
close again for another and another and yet another embrace.</p><p>他花了半小時才說再見。在最後一個吻和最後一個握手之後，他們的手臂會伸到最大的極限，然後再一次，再一次，再一次的相擁。</p>
<h3 id="pgepubid00215">XV</h3>
<p>When at length Rossi was gone, Roma ran into her bedroom to look at her
face in the glass. The golden complexion was heightened by a bright spot
on either cheek, and a teardrop was glistening in the corner of each of
her eyes.</p><p>當羅西終於離開時，羅馬跑到她的臥室去看她在鏡子中的臉。金色的膚色被兩頰上的亮斑增強,並且每隻眼角都閃爍著淚珠。</p>
<p>She went back to the boudoir. David Rossi was no longer there, but the
room seemed to be full of his presence. She sat in the chair again, and
again she stood by the window. At length she opened her desk and wrote a
letter:—</p><p>她回到了化妝間。大衛·羅西已經不在那裡了，但整個房間似乎都充滿了他的存在。她再次坐在椅子上，又站在窗邊。最後，她回到書桌，寫了一封信：</p>
<p style="padding-top:.5em">"<span class="smcap">Dearest</span>,—You are only half-an-hour gone, and here I am sending this
letter after you, like a handkerchief you had forgotten. I have one or
two things to say, quite matter-of-fact and simple things, but I cannot
think of them sensibly for joy of the certainty that you love me. Of
course I knew it all the time, but I couldn't be at ease until I had
heard it from your own lips; and now I feel almost afraid of my great
happiness. How wonderful it seems! And, like all events that are long
expected, how suddenly it has happened in the end. To think that a month
ago—only a little month—you<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" title="165"><a id="Page_165" title="165"></a></span> and I were both in Rome, within a mile of
each other, breathing the same air, enclosed by the same cloud, kissed
by the same sunshine, and yet we didn't know it!</p><p style="padding-top:.5em">"親愛的，你才剛走半小時，我這裡已經準備好寄信給你，就像你忘記的手帕一樣。我有一兩件事要說，都很實在簡單的事情，但是想到你確定愛我的事實讓我無法冷靜地思考。當然，我一直都知道，但是直到我從你的嘴唇上聽到，我才能放心；現在，我對我的大幸福感到有些恐慌。這似乎多麼真奇妙！而且，像所有久違的大事一樣，最終它怎麼突然就發生了。想想看，一個月前——只是一個小月份——你和我都在羅馬，彼此間只有一英里的距離，我們呼吸著相同的空氣，被相同的雲朵包圍，被相同的陽光親吻，然而我們卻不知道！"
</p>
<p>"Soberly, though, I want you to understand that I meant all I said so
savagely about going on with your work, and not letting your anxiety
about my welfare interfere with you. I am really one of the women who
think that a wife should further a man's aims in life if she can; and if
she can't do that, she should stand aside and not impede him. So go on,
dear heart, without fear for me. I will take care of myself, whatever
occurs. Don't let one hour or one act of your life be troubled by the
thought of what would happen to me if you should fall. Dearest, I am
your beloved, but I am your soldier also, ready and waiting to follow
where my captain calls:</p><p>"我十分鄭重的告訴你，我剛剛激烈地說了一番話，那是真心的。我希望你繼續努力工作，不要讓你對我的關心干擾你。我確實是那種認為妻子應該盡可能支援丈夫的事業的女人，如果做不到，她就應該讓路，不要阻攔他。所以，親愛的，放心大膽地繼續前進，對我而言我會好好照顧我自己，無論遇到什麼情況。你在生活中的每一個小時，每一個行動，都不應該因為擔心如果你失敗，我會怎麼樣而困擾。親愛的，我是你的愛人，但也是你的戰士，我已經隨時準備好跟隨我的領導者。"
</p>
<p style="margin-left: 2em;">
"'Teach me, only teach, Love!<br/>
<span style="margin-left: 1em;">As I ought</span><br/>
I will speak thy speech, Love!<br/>
<span style="margin-left: 1em;">Think thy thought.'</span><br/>
</p><p style="margin-left: 2em;">"教我，只教，愛！
如我應有的方式
我將說出你的語言，愛！
想你的想法。"
</p>
<p>"And if I was not half afraid that you would think it bolder than is
modest in your bride to be, I would go on with the next lines of my
sweet quotation.</p><p>"如果我不是有一半害怕你會覺得你的未婚妻這麼大膽是失禮的，我會繼續引述我的甜蜜語句的下一行。"</p>
<p>"Another thing. You went away without saying you forgive me for the
wicked duplicity I practised upon you. It was very wrong, I suppose, and
yet for my life I cannot get up any real contrition on the subject.
There's always some duplicity in a woman. It is the badge of every
daughter of Eve, and it must come out somewhere. In my case it came out
in loving you to all the lengths and ends of love, and drawing you on to
loving me. I ought to be ashamed, but I'm not—I'm glad.</p><p>"另外一件事。你離開的時候，並沒有說你原諒我對你的邪惡的欺瞞。我想，這是非常錯誤的，但是我怎麼也無法對這件事產生真正的悔意。每個女人都有一些欺瞞。這是每一個夏娃的女兒的標誌，並且必須在某處表現出來。在我的情況下，它表現在我對你的愛，愛到了極致和盡頭，並且引導你愛我。我應該感到羞恥，但我沒有-我很高興。"</p>
<p>"I <i>did</i> love first, and, of course, I knew you from the beginning, and
when you wrote about being in love with some one else, I knew quite well
you meant me. But it was so delicious to pretend not to know, to come
near and then to sheer off again, to touch and then to fly, to tempt you
and then to run away, until a strong tide rushed at me and overwhelmed
me, and I was swooning in your arms at last.</p><p>"我首先愛上了你，當然，我一直以來就認識你，當你寫到自己愛上了別人，我非常清楚你指的是我。但是假裝不知道真相、接近你然後再遠離你、觸碰你然後飛逃、引誘你然後逃跑，讓我感到無比愉快，直到一股強大的潮流襲向我，淹沒我，我終於在你的懷裡昏了過去。"</p>
<p>"Dearest, don't think I made light of the obstacles you urged against
our union. I knew all the time that the risks of marriage were serious,
though perhaps I am not in a position even yet to realise how serious
they may be. Only I knew also that the dangers were greater still if we
kept apart,<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00216" title="166"><a id="Page_166" title="166"></a></span> and that gave me courage to be bold and to defy
conventions.</p><p>"親愛的，不要以為我對你所提出反對我們結合的障礙採取輕描淡寫的態度。我始終知道婚姻的風險是重大的，也許我現在還未能完全意識到它們有多麼嚴重。我只知道，如果我們保持分開，危險會更大，這給了我勇氣去大膽挑戰和違抗慣例。"</p>
<p>"Which brings me to my last point, and please prepare to be serious, and
bend your brow to that terrible furrow which comes when you are
fearfully in earnest. What you said of your enemies being merciless, and
perhaps watching me and putting pressure upon me to injure you, is only
too imminent a danger. The truth is that I have all along known more
than I had courage to tell, but I was hoping you would understand, and
now I tremble to think how I have suffered myself to be silent.</p><p>"這讓我想到了我的最後一點，請準備認真對待，並為那種當你極度認真時會出現的可怕皺紋皺起你的眉頭。你說你的敵人無情，可能正在監視我，向我施壓以傷害你，這只是一種太即將到來的危險。事實上，我一直以來都知道比我有勇氣告訴您的更多，但我希望您能理解，而現在我為我曾默默無言而感到震驚。"</p>
<p>"The Minghelli matter is an alarming affair, for I have reason to
believe that the man has lit on the name you bore in England, and that
when he returns to Rome he will try to fix it upon you by means of me.
This is fearful to contemplate, and my heart quakes to think of it. But
happily there is a way to checkmate such a devilish design, and it is
within your own power to save me from life-long remorse.</p><p>"明赫利事件是一件令人驚恐的事，因為我有理由相信那個人已經找出了你在英格蘭使用的名字，而且他回到羅馬時會試圖透過我將它歸咎於你。這個想法令我害怕，我心驚膽戰。但幸運的是，有一個方法可以阻止這種惡魔的計劃，你完全有能力讓我免於終生的悔恨。"</p>
<p>"I don't think the laws of any civilized country compel a man's <i>wife</i>
to compromise him, and thinking of this gives me courage to be
unmaidenly and say: Don't let it be long, dearest! I could die to bring
it to pass in a moment. With all my great, great happiness, I shall have
the heartache until it is done, and only when it is over shall I begin
to live.</p><p>"我不認為任何文明國家的法律會強迫一個人的妻子去妥協他，想到這一點讓我有勇氣放下矜持，說出：愛人，不要等太久！我願意犧牲生命履行這件事。儘管我有無盡的幸福，我心中仍有痛苦，直到這一切都結束，我才能開始活著。"</p>
<p>"There! You didn't know what a forward hussy I could be if I tried, and
really I have been surprised at myself since I began to be in love with
you. For weeks and weeks I have been thin and haggard and ugly, and only
to-day I begin to be a little beautiful. I couldn't be anything but
beautiful to-day, and I've been running to the glass to look at myself,
as the only way to understand why you love me at all. And I'm glad—so
glad for your sake.</p><p>"那裡！你不知道我如果努力的話，可以多大膽。而且，自從我開始愛上你以來，我真的對自己感到驚訝。有好幾周我都又瘦又憔悴又醜陋，只有今天我開始稍微變得美麗了。今天我不能不美麗，我一直跑到鏡子前檢視自己，因為那是瞭解你為何愛我的唯一方式。我很高興—為了你我很高興。"</p>
<p>"Good-bye, dearest! You cannot come to-morrow or the next day, and what
a lot I shall have to live before I see you again! Shall I look older?
No, for thinking of you makes me feel younger and younger every minute.
How old are you? Thirty-four? I'm twenty-four and a half, and that is
just right, but if you think I ought to be nearer your age I'll wear a
bonnet and fasten it with a bow.</p><p>"再見，我最親愛的！你明天或後天都不能來，我在再次見到你之前會過多少生活！我會看起來更老嗎？不會，因為想你讓我每分每秒都感覺到自己年輕了。你多大了？三十四歲？我二十四歲半，這個年齡剛剛好，但如果你認為我應該接近你的年齡，我將會戴一頂帽子並用蝴蝶結固定它。"</p>
<p style="text-align:right; margin-top:-1em;">"<span class="smcap">Roma</span>.</p><p style="text-align:right; margin-top:-1em;">"羅馬。"</p>
<p style="padding-bottom:.5em">
"P.S.—Don't
delay the momentous matter. Don't! Don't! Don't!"<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00217" title="167"><a id="Page_167" title="167"></a></span></p><p style="padding-bottom:.5em">"P.S.—別延遲這件重大的事情。別！別！別！"</p>
<p>She dined alone that night that she might be undisturbed in her thoughts
of Rossi. Ordinary existence had almost disappeared from her
consciousness, and every time Felice spoke as he served the dishes his
voice seemed to come from far away.</p><p>那夜，她獨自用餐，這樣她就可以不受干擾地思考羅西的事。平凡的生活幾乎從她的意識中消失，並且每次費利斯在他端菜時說話，他的聲音似乎都是從遠處傳來的。</p>
<p>She went to bed early, but it was late before she slept. For a long time
she lay awake to think over all that had happened, and, when the night
was far gone, and she tried to fall asleep in order to dream of it also,
she could not do so for sheer delight of the prospect. But at last amid
the gathering clouds of sleep she said "Good-night," with the ghost of a
kiss, and slept until morning.</p><p>她早早地就上床了，但睡覺卻相當晚。她醒著的時間很長，回想著一切發生的事情，然後，當夜晚漸深，她試著為了也要夢見這一切而睡覺，但由於對未來的期待無比的喜悅，她無法入睡。然而，最後在睡眠的雲濃中，她模糊地說了聲“晚安”，伴隨一個親吻的幽靈，然後一直睡到早上。</p>
<p>When she awoke it was late, and the sun was shining into the room. She
lay on her back and stretched out both arms for sheer sweetness of the
sensation of health and love. Everything was well, and she was very
happy. Thinking of yesterday, she was even sorry for the Baron, and told
herself she had been too bold and daring.</p><p>當她醒來的時候已經很晚了，陽光照射進房間。她仰躺著，兩臂舒展開來，感覺到健康與愛的甜美刺激。一切都很順利，她很快樂。回想起昨天，她甚至為男爵感到遺憾，並告訴自己她是太大膽和冒險了。</p>
<p>But that thought was gone in a moment. Body and soul were suffused with
joy, and she leapt out of bed with a spring.</p><p>但那種想法一瞬間就消失了。身體和靈魂被喜悅充滿，她輕盈地跳出床鋪。</p>
<p>A moment afterwards Natalina came with a letter. It was from the Baron
himself, and it was dated the day before:—</p><p>不久之後，Natalina帶著一封信來了。這是巴倫本人的信，日期是前一天：</p>
<p style="padding-top:.5em; padding-bottom:.5em;">"Minghelli has returned from London, and therefore I must see you
to-morrow at eleven o'clock. Be so good as to be at home, and give
orders that for half-an-hour at least we shall be quite undisturbed."</p><p style="padding-top:.5em; padding-bottom:.5em;">"明赫利已經從倫敦回來了，所以我必須明天早上十一點見你。請在家，並且確保我們至少有半個小時不會被打擾。"</p>
<p>Then the sun went out, the air grew dull, and darkness fell over all the
world.</p><p>然後，太陽消失了，空氣變得沉悶，全世界陷入了黑暗。</p>
<hr class="major"/>
<div style="margin: auto; text-align: center; padding-top: 1em; padding-bottom: 1em;">
<a id="PART_FIVE_THE_PRIME_MINISTER"></a>
<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00218" title="168"><a id="Page_168" title="168"></a></span>
<h2 id="pgepubid00219">PART FIVE—THE PRIME MINISTER</h2>
</div>
<h3 id="pgepubid00220">I</h3>
<p>It was Sunday. The storm threatened by the sunset of the day before had
not yet come, but the sun was struggling through a veil of clouds, and a
black ridge lay over the horizon.</p><p>那是星期日。前一天夕陽預示的暴風雨還未來臨，但太陽正在努力透過一片雲層，並且地平線上橫躺著一道黑色山脊。</p>
<p>At eleven o'clock to the moment the Baron arrived. As usual, he was
faultlessly dressed, and he looked cool and tranquil.</p><p>正好十一點，男爵抵達了。他如常無懈可擊的穿著，看起來冷靜舒適。</p>
<p>"I am to show you into this room, Excellency," said Felice, leading the
way to the boudoir.</p><p>"我要帶您進這個房間，閣下，"菲利斯領路走向閨房。</p>
<p>"Thanks!... Anything to tell me, Felice?"</p><p>"謝謝！... 費麗絲，你有什麼要告訴我嗎？"</p>
<p>"Nothing, Excellency," said Felice. Then, pointing to the plaster bust
on its pedestal in the corner, he added in a lower tone, "<i>He</i> remained
last night after the others had gone, and...."</p><p>"沒有什麼，閣下，"Felice說。然後，他指向了角落裡那立在底座上的石膏雕像，低聲補充道，"昨晴晚上其他人都走了之後，他仍然留下來，並且......"</p>
<p>But at that moment there was the rustle of a woman's dress outside, and,
interrupting Felice, the Baron said in a high-pitched voice:</p><p>但就在那一刻，外面傳來了女人的衣裳沙沙聲，打斷了費利斯的話，男爵用尖尖的聲音說：</p>
<p>"Certainly; and please tell the Countess I shall not forget to look in
upon her before I go."</p><p>"當然，請告訴伯爵夫人，在我離開之前我不會忘記去看望她。"</p>
<p>Roma came into the room with a gloomy and firm-set face. The smile that
seemed always to play about her mouth and eyes had given place to a
slight frown and an air of defiance. But the Baron saw in a moment that
behind the lips so sternly set, and the straight look of the eyes, there
was a frightened expression which she was trying to conceal. He greeted
her with his accustomed calm and naturalness, kissed her hand, offered
her the flower from his button-hole, put her to sit in the arm-chair
with its back to the window, took his own seat on the couch in front of
it, and leisurely drew off his spotless gloves.</p><p>"羅馬帶著陰沉和堅決的面孔走進了房間。她的嘴角和眼睛周圍常常掛著的微笑已經消失，取而代之的是輕輕的皺眉和一種挑釁的氣氛。但男爵立即看出，她緊閉雙唇、直視前方的背後，有一種她試圖隱藏的恐慌表情。他以他慣常的鎮定和自然迎接她，親吻她的手，將他繡眼的花朵送給她，讓她坐在靠窗的扶手椅上，自己則坐在前面的沙發上，並慢悠悠地脫下他潔白無瑕的手套。"</p>
<p>Not a word about the scene of yesterday, not a look of pain or reproof.
Only a few casual pleasantries, and then a quiet gliding into the
business of his visit.<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00221" title="169"><a id="Page_169" title="169"></a></span></p><p>"關於昨天的情景一言未提，也沒有痛苦或責備的表情。
只有一些隨意的寒暄，然後安靜地進入他訪問的業務。"</p>
<p>"What an age since we were here alone before! And what changes you've
made! Your pretty nest is like a cell! Well, I've obeyed your mandate,
you see. I've stayed away for a month. It was hard to do—bitterly
hard—and many a time I've told myself it was imprudent. But you were a
woman. You were inexorable. I was forced to submit. And now, what have
you got to tell me?"</p><p>"自從我們上次獨處這裡已經過了多久啊！你做了什麼改變！你的漂亮小窩現在就像個牢房！好吧，你看，我已經遵從你的命令了。我已經一個月沒有來了。這很難做到 - 非常難 - 很多次我告訴自己這是不謹慎的。但你是一位女士。你是無情的。我被迫順從。現在，你有什麼要告訴我的呢？"</p>
<p>"Nothing," she answered, looking straight before her.</p><p>"她回答說，'沒有'，然後直視前方。"</p>
<p>"Nothing whatever?"</p><p>"一點也沒有?"</p>
<p>"Nothing whatever."</p><p>"完全沒有任何事情。"</p>
<p>She did not move or turn her face, and he sat for a moment watching her.
Then he rose, and began to walk about the room.</p><p>她沒有移動或轉過她的臉，他坐在那裡看了她一會兒。
然後他站起來，開始在房間裡走來走去。</p>
<p>"Let us understand each other, my child," he said gently. "Will you
forgive me if I recall facts that are familiar?"</p><p>"讓我們相互理解，我的孩子,"他溫和地說。"如果我回憶起熟悉的事實，你會原諒我嗎?"</p>
<p>She did not answer, but looked fixedly into the fire, while he leaned on
the stove and stood face to face with her.</p><p>她沒有回答，只是凝視著火裡，而他靠在爐子上，面對面地站在她面前。</p>
<p>"A month ago, a certain Deputy, an obstructionist politician, who has
for years made the task of government difficult, uttered a seditious
speech, and brought himself within the power of the law. In that speech
he also attacked me, and—shall I say?—grossly slandered you.
Parliament was not in session, and I was able to order his arrest. In
due course, he would have been punished, perhaps by imprisonment,
perhaps by banishment, but you thought it prudent to intervene. You
urged reasons of policy which were wise and far-seeing. I yielded, and,
to the bewilderment of my officials, I ordered the Deputy's release. But
he was not therefore to escape. You undertook his punishment. In a
subtle and more effectual way, you were to wipe out the injury he had
done, and requite him for his offence. The man was a mystery—you were
to find out all about him. He was suspected of intrigue—you were to
discover his conspiracies. Within a month, you were to deliver him into
my hands, and I was to know <i>the inmost secrets of his soul</i>."</p><p>"一個月前，一位特定的副官，一位阻礙政治的政治家，多年來使政府的工作困難，發表了一篇挑釁性的演講，並讓自己處於法律的制裁之下。在那篇演講中，他也攻擊了我，並——可以這麼說嗎？——嚴重地誹謗了你。當時議會未開會，我能夠下令逮捕他。按照程序，他可能會被懲罰，可能是監禁，也可能是放逐，但你認為謹慎的是介入。你提出了明智且有遠見的政策理由。我讓步了，令我們的官員困惑的是，我下令釋放了這位副官。但他因此並未逃脫。你承諾懲罰他。用一種更巧妙且更有效的方法，你將消除他造成的傷害，並為他的過錯報仇。這個人是一個謎——你將找出他的所有事情。他被懷疑有陰謀——你將揭露他的陰謀。在一個月內，你將把他交到我手中，我將知道他心靈的最深處的秘密。"</p>
<p>It was with difficulty that Roma maintained her calmness while the Baron
was speaking, but she only shook a stray lock of hair from her forehead,
and sat silent.</p><p>羅馬在男爵說話時努力保持冷靜，但她只是搖落額前的一縷頭髮，然後沉默不語。</p>
<p>"Well, the month is over. I have given you every opportunity to deal
with our friend as you thought best. Have you found out anything about
him?"</p><p>"嗯，一個月過去了。我給了你所有的機會以你認為最好的方式處理我們的朋友。你有找到他的任何資訊嗎？"</p>
<p>She put on a bold front and answered, "No."<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00222" title="170"><a id="Page_170" title="170"></a></span></p><p>她裝出一副大膽的態度，回答說："不。"</p>
<p>"So your effort has failed?"</p><p>"所以你的努力失敗了嗎？"</p>
<p>"Absolutely."</p><p>"絕對。"</p>
<p>"Then you are likely to give up your plan of punishing the man for
defaming and degrading you?"</p><p>"那麼，你可能會放棄懲罰那個誹謗和貶低你的人的計劃嗎？"</p>
<p>"I have given it up already."</p><p>"我已經放棄了。"</p>
<p>"Strange! Very strange! Very unfortunate also, for we are at this moment
at a crisis when it is doubly important to the Government to possess the
information you set out to find. Still, your idea was a good one, and I
can never be sufficiently grateful to you for suggesting it. And
although <i>your</i> efforts have failed, you need not be uneasy. You have
given us the clues by which <i>our</i> efforts are succeeding, and you shall
yet punish the man who insulted you so publicly and so grossly."</p><p>"奇怪！實在很奇怪！這也很不幸，因為我們正處於一個危機時刻，政府加倍需要你準備去找的資訊。然而，你的想法是好的，我無法對你提出的建議表示足夠的感謝。儘管你的努力失敗了，但你不需要感到不安。你給我們提供了成功的線索，你將會懲罰那個在公眾場合如此粗魯地侮辱你的人。"</p>
<p>"How is it possible for me to punish him?"</p><p>"我該如何懲罰他呢？"</p>
<p>"By identifying David Rossi as one who was condemned in contumacy for
high treason sixteen years ago."</p><p>"透過確認十六年前因高階叛國罪而被判罪的大衛·羅西。"</p>
<p>"That is ridiculous," she said. "Sixteen months ago I had never heard
the name of David Rossi."</p><p>"那是荒謬的，"她說。"十六個月前，我從未聽說過David Rossi這個名字。"</p>
<p>The Baron stooped a little and said:</p><p>"男爵微微低頭，並說道："</p>
<p>"Had you ever heard the name of David Leone?"</p><p>"你有沒有聽過大衛·萊昂這個名字？"</p>
<p>She dropped back in her chair, and again looked straight before her.</p><p>她倒退回椅子上，再次直視前方。</p>
<p>"Come, come, my child," said the Baron caressingly, and moving across
the room to look out of the window, he tapped her lightly on the
shoulder:</p><p>"來，來，我的孩子，"男爵溫柔地說，他走過房間向窗外看去，輕輕在她的肩膀上拍了拍</p>
<p>"I told you that Minghelli had returned from London."</p><p>"我告訴過你，Minghelli已經從倫敦回來了。"</p>
<p>"That forger!" she said hoarsely.</p><p>"那個偽造者!" 她嘶聲說。</p>
<p>"No doubt! One who spends his life ferreting out crime is apt to have
the soul of a criminal. But civilisation needs its scavengers, and it
was a happy thought of yours to think of this one. Indeed, everything
we've done has been done on your initiative, and when our friend is
finally brought to justice, the deed will really be due to you, and you
alone."</p><p>"毫無疑問！一個將他的生活都投入於揪出犯罪的人，可能擁有著犯罪者的靈魂。然而，文明社會需要清道夫，你能夠想到找這個人實在是個好主意。實際上，我們做的每一件事都是在你的倡導下進行的，當我們的朋友最終被繩之以法，事實上將是你的獨立貢獻。"
</p>
<p>The defiant look was disappearing from her eyes, and she rose with an
expression of pain.</p><p>她眼中的反抗神情正在消失，她以一種痛苦的表情站了起來。</p>
<p>"Why do you torture me like this?" she said. "After what has happened,
isn't it quite plain that I am his friend, and not his enemy?"</p><p>"你為什麼要這樣折磨我?"她說。“發生這些事情後，我是他的朋友，而不是他的敵人，這不是很明顯嗎？”</p>
<p>"Perhaps," said the Baron. His face assumed a death-like rigidity. "Sit
down and listen to me."</p><p>"也許吧，"男爵說。他的臉變得如死一般僵硬。"坐下來聽我說。"</p>
<p>She sat down, and he returned to his place by the stove.<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00223" title="171"><a id="Page_171" title="171"></a></span></p><p>她坐下，他則回到了爐邊的位置。</p>
<p>"I say you gave us the clues we have worked upon. Those clues were
three. First, that David Rossi knew the life-story of Doctor Roselli in
London. Second, that he knew the story of Doctor Roselli's daughter,
Roma Roselli. Third, that he was for a time a waiter at the Grand Hotel
in Rome. Two minor clues came independently, that David Rossi was once a
stable-boy in New York, that his mother drowned herself in the Tiber,
and he was brought up in a Foundling. By these five clues the
authorities have discovered eight facts. Permit me to recite them."</p><p>"我說你給了我們已經工作的線索。這些線索有三個。首先，大衛·羅西知道倫敦羅塞利醫生的生平故事。其次，他知道羅塞利醫生的女兒，羅馬羅塞利，的故事。第三，他曾經在羅馬的大酒店做過服務生。另外兩個小線索獨立來源，大衛·羅西曾在紐約當過馬廄男孩，他的母親在台伯河自盡，他在孤兒院長大。透過這五條線索，當局已經發現了八個事實。請允許我將它們列舉出來。”</p>
<p>Leaning his elbow on the stove and opening his hand, the Baron ticked
off the facts one by one on his fingers.</p><p>倚著爐子的手肘，張開手掌，男爵一一在指頭上列舉事實。</p>
<p>"Fact one. Some thirty odd years ago a woman carrying a child presented
herself at the office in Rome for the registry of births. She gave the
name of Leonora Leone, and wished her child, a boy, to be registered as
David Leone. But the officer in attendance discovered that the woman's
name was Leonora Rossi, and that she had been married according to the
religious rites of the Church, but not according to the civil
regulations of the State. The child was therefore registered as David
Rossi, son of Leonora Rossi and of a father unknown."</p><p>"事實一。大約三十年前，一位帶著孩子的女人來到羅馬的出生登記處。她自稱Leonora Leone，並希望她的孩子，一個男孩，被登記為David Leone。但是，當務之急發現這位女士的名字其實是Leonora Rossi，並且她根據教會的宗教禮儀結婚，但並未根據國家的民事法規結婚。因此，這個孩子被登記為David Rossi，Leonora Rossi的兒子，且其父親不明。"</p>
<p>"Shameful!" cried Roma. "Shameful! shameful!"</p><p>"可恥！" 羅馬喊道。 "可恥！可恥！"</p>
<p>"Fact two," said the Baron, without the change of a tone. "One night a
little later the body of a woman found drowned in the Tiber was
recognised as the body of Leonora Rossi, and buried in the pauper part
of the Campo Verano under that name. The same night a child was placed
by an unknown hand in the <i>rota</i> of Santo Spirito, with a paper attached
to its wrist, giving particulars of its baptism and its name. The name
given was David Leone."</p><p>"事實二，"男爵平靜無波地說道。"再過一段夜晚，人們在台伯河中找到了一具被淹死的女人的屍體，並被確認為萊奧諾拉·羅西的屍體，在Campo Verano的窮人區以該名字下葬。同一個晚上，一個孩子被一個不知名的人手放在Santo Spirito的轉盤上，手腕上繫著一張紙，給出其受洗的細節和其名字。給出的名字是大衛·萊昂。"</p>
<p>The Baron ticked off the third of his fingers and continued:</p><p>男爵勾選了他手指上的第三個，並繼續說:</p>
<p>"Fact three. Fourteen years afterwards a boy named David Leone, fourteen
years of age, was living in the house of an Italian exile in London. The
exile was a Roman prince under the incognito of Doctor Roselli; his
family consisted of his wife and one child, a daughter named Roma, four
years of age. David Leone had been adopted by Doctor Roselli, who had
picked him up in the street."</p><p>"事實三。十四年後，一個名叫大衛·萊昂的14歲男孩在倫敦一個義大利流亡者的家中居住。這位流亡者是一位假名為羅塞利博士的羅馬王子;他的家庭由他的妻子和一個孩子——一個名叫羅馬的四歲女兒組成。大衛·萊昂被羅塞利博士收養，羅塞利博士在街上領養了他。"</p>
<p>Roma covered her face with her hands.</p><p>"羅馬用雙手遮住了她的臉。"</p>
<p>"Fact four. Four years later a conspiracy to assassinate the King of
Italy was discovered at Milan. The chief conspirator<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00224" title="172"><a id="Page_172" title="172"></a></span> turned out to be,
unfortunately, the English exile known as Doctor Roselli. By the good
offices of a kinsman, jealous of the honour of his true family name, he
was not brought to public trial, but deported by one of the means
adopted by all Governments when secrecy or safety is in question. But
his confederates and correspondents were shown less favour, and one of
them, still in England, being tried in contumacy by a military court
which sat during a state of siege, was condemned for high treason to the
military punishment of death. The name of that confederate and
correspondent was David Leone."</p><p>"事實第四。四年後，義大利國王遭刺殺的陰謀在米蘭被發現。不幸的是，首席陰謀者被證明是被稱為羅塞利醫生的英國流亡者。由於一位親戚的好意，他為了保護他真正的家族名譽，他沒有公開審判，而是透過所有當地政府在涉及秘密或安全問題時採取的一種手段被驅逐。但是，他的同黨和通訊物件顯然未受到如此待遇，其中一個仍在英國的人被一個在圍攻期間坐在那裡的軍事法庭以缺席審判，因高等叛國罪被判給死刑。那個同黨和通訊對象的名字叫做大衛·萊昂。"</p>
<p>Roma's slippered foot was beating the floor fast, but the Baron went on
in his cool and tranquil tone.</p><p>"羅馬的拖鞋在地板上快速踢踏，但男爵以他鎮定並從容的語調繼續說話。"</p>
<p>"Fact five. Our extradition treaty excluded the delivery of political
offenders, but after representations from Italy, David Leone left
England. He went to America. There he was first employed in the stables
of the Tramway Company in New York, and lived in the Italian quarter of
the city, but afterwards he rose out of his poverty and low position and
became a journalist. In that character he attracted attention by a new
political and religious propaganda. Jesus Christ was lawgiver for the
nation as well as for the individual, and the redemption of the world
was to be brought to pass by a constitution based on the precepts of the
Lord's Prayer. The creed was sufficiently sentimental to be seized upon
by fanatics in that country of countless faiths, but it cut at the roots
of order, of poverty, even of patriotism, and being interpreted into
action, seemed likely to lead to riot."</p><p>"事實五。我們的引渡條約排除了政治犯的交付，但在義大利的表示後，大衛·萊昂離開了英國。他去了美國。在那裡，他最初在紐約市的有軌電車公司的馬房裡工作，並住在城市的義大利區，但後來他擺脫了他的貧窮和低下的地位，並成為了一名記者。在那個角色中，他透過一種新的政治和宗教宣傳吸引了人們的注意。耶穌基督是為國家和個人立法的，世界的救贖將由基於主禱文教誨的憲法實現。這種信條足夠激起那個擁有無數信仰的國家的狂熱者的同情，但它削弱了秩序， 貧窮，甚至於愛國主義的根基，並且一旦被解讀為行動，似乎有可能導致騷亂。"</p>
<p>The Baron twisted the ends of his moustache, and said, with a smile,
"David Leone disappeared from New York. From that time forward no trace
of him has yet been found. He was as much gone as if he had ceased to
exist. <i>David Leone was dead.</i>"</p><p>男爵扭曲了他的鬍鬚的末端，面帶微笑地說，"大衛·利奧內從紐約消失了。從那時起就再也沒有找到他的蹤影。他就像不存在一樣消失了。大衛·利奧內死了。"</p>
<p>Roma's hands had come down from her face, and she was picking at the
buttons of her blouse with twitching fingers.</p><p>"Roma的手從她的臉上放下來，而且她的手指在抖動著撥弄她襯衫的鈕扣。"</p>
<p>"Fact six," said the Baron, ticking off the thumb of his other hand.
"Twenty-five or six years after the registration of the child David
Rossi in Rome, a man, apparently twenty-five or six years of age, giving
the name of David Rossi, arrived in England from America. He called at a
baker's shop in Soho to ask for Roma Roselli, the daughter of Doctor
Roselli, left behind in London when the exile returned to<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00225" title="173"><a id="Page_173" title="173"></a></span> Italy. They
told him that Roma Roselli was dead and buried."</p><p>"事實六,"男爵說道,用他另一隻手的大拇指點點。
"在為孩子大衛·羅西在羅馬註冊之後的二十五或六年裡，一個顯然已經二十五或六歲的男人，自稱是大衛·羅西，從美國抵達英國。他去了Soho的一個麵包師傅的店鋪，去詢問羅馬·羅塞利，這是醫生羅塞利的女兒，當流亡者返回義大利時遺留在倫敦。他們告訴他羅馬·羅塞利已經去世並被埋葬了。"</p>
<p>Roma's face, which had been pale until now, began to glow like a fire on
a gloomy night, and her foot beat faster and faster.</p><p>羅馬的臉，直到現在都是蒼白的，開始像陰暗夜晚的火焰一樣發光，她的腳步越來越快。</p>
<p>"Fact seven. David Rossi appeared in Rome, first as a waiter at the
Grand Hotel, but soon afterwards as a journalist and public lecturer,
propounding precisely the same propaganda as that of David Leone in New
York, and exciting the same interest."</p><p>"事實七。大衛·羅西首次出現在羅馬，最初是作為格蘭德酒店的侍者，但不久後他成為了記者和公眾演講者，宣揚的宣傳內容與紐約的大衛·利昂完全相同，並引起了同樣的興趣。"</p>
<p>"Well? What of it?" said Roma. "David Leone was David Leone, and David
Rossi is David Rossi—there is no more in it than that."</p><p>"那麼？那又怎麼樣？" Roma說。"David Leone就是David Leone，David Rossi就是David Rossi——就只有這樣而已。"</p>
<p>The Baron clasped his hands so tight that his knuckles cracked, and
said, in a slightly exalted tone:</p><p>"男爵緊握雙手，關節發出咔嚓聲，並以稍微激動的語調說道："</p>
<p>"Eighth and last fact. About that time a man called at the office of the
Campo Santo to know where he was to find the grave of Leonora Leone, the
woman who had drowned herself in the Tiber twenty-six years before. The
pauper trench had been dug up over and over again in the interval, but
the officials gave him their record of the place where she had once been
buried. He had the spot measured off for him, and he went down on his
knees before it. Hours passed, and he was still kneeling there. At
length night fell, and the officers had to warn him away."</p><p>"第八個也是最後一個事實。那時候一個男人來到Campo Santo辦公室，想知道他該在哪裡找到Leonora Leone的墓地，那個女人在二十六年前自沉在蒂伯河。在那段時間裡，乞丐的墳墓被反覆挖掘，但官員給了他她曾經被埋葬的地方的記錄。他測量了一下那個地方，然後跪在前面。時間過去了許多小時，他還在那裡跪著。最後，夜晚降臨，官員不得不警告他離開。"</p>
<p>Roma's foot had ceased to beat on the floor, and she was rising in her
chair.</p><p>羅馬的腳停止在地板上拍打，她正在椅子上起身。</p>
<p>"That man," said the Baron, "the only human being who ever thought it
worth while to look up the grave of the poor suicide, Leonora Rossi, the
mother of David Leone, was David Rossi! Who was David Leone?—David
Rossi! Who was David Rossi?—David Leone! The circle had closed around
him—the evidence was complete."</p><p>"那個男人,"男爵說,"是唯一認為值得去回顧那個窮困自殺者Leonora Rossi的墳墓的人，那就是David Leone的母親，他就是David Rossi! 誰是David Leone?—David Rossi! 誰是David Rossi?—David Leone! 圈子已經緊緊的圍繞住他—證據已經完全地足夠了。“</p>
<p>"Oh! oh! oh!"</p><p>"哦！哦！哦！"</p>
<p>Roma had leapt up and was moving about the room. Her lips were
compressed with scorn, her eyes were flashing, and she burst into a
torrent of words, which spluttered out of her quivering lips.</p><p>羅馬猛然站起，開始在房間裡來回走動。她的嘴唇因鄙視而緊閉，她的眼中閃著光，並爆發出一陣咆哮的話語，它們從她顫抖的嘴唇中濺出。</p>
<p>"Oh, to think of it! To think of it! You are right! The man who spends
his life looking for crime must have the soul of a criminal! He has no
conscience, no humanity, no mercy, no pity. And when he has tracked and
dogged a man to his mother's grave—<i>his mother's grave</i>—he can dine,
he<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00226" title="174"><a id="Page_174" title="174"></a></span> can laugh, he can go to the theatre! Oh, I hate you! There, I've
told you! Now, do with me as you please!"</p><p>"哦，想想看！你是對的！那個一輩子尋找罪行的人，一定擁有罪犯的靈魂！他沒有良心，沒有人性，沒有慈悲，沒有同情心。甚至當他跟蹤並逼迫一個人到他母親的墳墓——他母親的墳墓——他還能吃飯，他能笑，他能去劇院！哦，我討厭你！我已經告訴你了！現在，隨你喜歡怎麼對待我！"</p>
<p>The death-like rigidity in the Baron's face decomposed into an expression
of intense pain, but he only passed his hand over his brow, and said,
after a moment of silence:</p><p>"男爵臉上的死亡般僵硬表情轉化為一種強烈的痛苦，但他只是將手掠過他的額頭，在沉默了一會兒後說道："</p>
<p>"My child, you are not only offending me, you are offending the theory
and principle of Justice. Justice has nothing to do with pity. In the
vocabulary of Justice there is but one word—duty. Duty called upon me
to fix this man's name upon him, that his obstructions, his slanders,
and his evil influence might be at an end. And now Justice calls upon
you to do the same."</p><p>"我的孩子，你不僅冒犯了我，你還冒犯了公正的理論和原則。公正與憐憫無關。在公正的詞匯中，只有一個詞——義務。義務要求我為這個人確定他的名稱，這樣他的阻礙、誹謗和邪惡影響就可以結束。現在，公正呼喚你做同樣的事情。"</p>
<p>The Baron leaned against the stove, and spoke in a calm voice, while
Roma in her agitation continued to walk about the room.</p><p>男爵靠在爐子上，平靜地說話，而激動的羅馬繼續在房間裡走來走去。</p>
<p>"Being a Deputy, and Parliament being in session, David Rossi can only
be arrested by the authorisation of the Chamber. In order to obtain that
authorisation, it is necessary that the Attorney-General should draw up
a statement of the case. The statement must be presented by the
Attorney-General to the Government, by the Government to the President,
by the President to a Committee, and by the Committee to Parliament.
Towards this statement the police have already obtained important
testimony, and a complete chain of circumstantial evidence has been
prepared. But they lack one link of positive proof, and until that link
is obtained the Attorney-General is unable to proceed. It is the
keystone of the arch, the central fact, without which all other facts
fall to pieces—the testimony of somebody who can swear, if need be,
that she knew both David Leone and David Rossi, and can identify the one
with the other."</p><p>"身為副議員，且議會正在開會，只有在獲得議會許可的情況下，才能逮捕大衛·羅西。為了獲得該許可，總檢察長必須先起草一份情況報告。該報告必須由總檢察長提交給政府，由政府提交給總統，由總統提交給一個委員會，再由委員會提交給議會。就這份報告而言，警方已經取得了重要的證詞，並已準備了一整套完整的間接證據。但他們缺少一個確定的證據連結，除非獲得該連結，否則總檢察長無法進行。這是拱門的楔石，也是所有事實的中心，如果沒有它，所有其他事實擊敗。需要一個可以宣誓的人作證——如有必要，她知道大衛·萊昂和大衛·羅西，並可以證明兩者為同一人。"</p>
<p>"Well?"</p><p>"好嗎？"</p>
<p>The Baron, who had stopped, continued in a calm voice: "My dear Roma,
need I go on? Dead as a Minister is to all sensibility, I had hoped to
spare you. There is only one person known to me who can supply that
link. That person is yourself."</p><p>男爵停下來後，平靜地繼續說：“我親愛的羅馬，
我還需要繼續說下去嗎？就像一個部長對所有敏感性都已經死亡，我原本希望能避免讓你受到傷害。我所知道的只有一個人能提供那個連結。那個人就是你自己。”</p>
<p>Roma's eyes were red with anger and terror, but she tried to laugh over
her fear.</p><p>"羅馬的眼睛因憤怒和恐懼而變得赤紅，但她試圖用笑聲來掩蓋她的恐懼。"</p>
<p>"How simple you are, after all!" she said. "It was Roma Roselli who knew
David Leone, wasn't it? Well, Roma Roselli is dead and buried. Oh, I
know all the story. You did that yourself, and now it cuts the ground
from under you."<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00227" title="175"><a id="Page_175" title="175"></a></span></p><p>"你到底有多天真啊！"她說。"是羅瑪·羅塞利認識大衛·萊昂，對吧？好吧，羅瑪·羅塞利已經去世並埋葬了。哦，我知道所有的故事。那是你自己做的，現在它削弱了你的立場。"</p>
<p>"My dear Roma," said the Baron, with a hard and angry face, "if I did
anything in that matter, it was done for your welfare, but whatever it
was, it need not disturb me now. Roma Roselli is <i>not</i> dead, and it
would be easy to bring people from England to say so."</p><p>"親愛的羅馬，"男爵硬邦邦而憤怒地說："如果我在那件事情上做了什麼，那是為了你的福祉，但不管那是什麼，現在無需讓我困擾。羅馬·羅塞利並沒有死，從英國帶人過來證明這一點將會輕而易舉。"</p>
<p>"You daren't! You know you daren't! It would expose them to persecution
for perpetrating a crime."</p><p>"你不敢！你知道你不敢！這將會導致他們因為犯罪而遭受迫害。"</p>
<p>"In England, not in Italy."</p><p>"在英國，而不是在義大利。"</p>
<p>Roma's red eyes fell, and the Baron began to speak in a caressing voice:</p><p>"羅馬的紅眼睛落下，男爵開始用撫慰的聲音說話："</p>
<p>"My child, don't fence with me. It is so painful to silence you.... It
is perhaps natural that you should sympathise with the weaker side. That
is the sweet and tender if illogical way of all women. But you must not
imagine that when David Rossi has been arrested he will be walked off to
his death. As a matter of fact, he must go through a new trial, he must
be defended, his sentence would in any case be reduced to imprisonment,
and it may even be wiped out altogether. That's all."</p><p>"我的孩子，不要和我辯駁。讓你保持沉默真是令我痛苦…. 你或許自然會同情弱者，這是所有女性的甜美又傷感，但不合邏輯的方式。但是你必須不要想像當大衛·羅西被捕時，他會被引領至死亡。事實上，他必須經歷一次新的審判，他必須得到辯護，他的判決無論如何都可能降為監禁，甚至完全取消。就這樣了。"</p>
<p>"All? And you ask me to help you to do that?"</p><p>"全部？而你還求我助你完成這件事？"</p>
<p>"Certainly."</p><p>"當然可以。"</p>
<p>"I won't!"</p><p>"我不會！"</p>
<p>"Then you could if you would?"</p><p>"那麼如果你願意，你能嗎？"</p>
<p>"I can't!"</p><p>"我不能！"</p>
<p>"Your first word was the better one, my child."</p><p>"你的第一個字是更好的那個，我的孩子。"</p>
<p>"Very well, I won't! I won't! Aren't you ashamed to ask me to do such a
thing? According to your own story, David Leone was my father's friend,
yet you wish me to give him up to the law that he may be imprisoned,
perhaps for life, and at least turned out of Parliament. Do you suppose
I am capable of treachery like that? Do you judge of everybody by
yourself?... Ah, I know that story too! For shame! For shame!"</p><p>"好吧，我不會！我不會！你不覺得要我去做這樣的事情感到臉紅嗎？根據你自己的描述，大衛·利奧內是我父親的朋友，但你卻想讓我把他交給法律，讓他可能被監禁一生，或者至少被驅逐出議會。你以為我能做出這種背叛嗎？你是用你自己的標準來評判所有人嗎？...哎，我知道那個故事了！真可恥！真可恥！”</p>
<p>The Baron was silent for a moment, and then said in an impassive voice:</p><p>男爵沉默了一會兒，然後用無動於衷的聲音說道：</p>
<p>"I will not discuss that subject with you now, my child—you are
excited, and don't quite know what you are saying. I will only point out
to you that even if David Leone was your father's friend, David Rossi
was your own enemy."</p><p>"我現在不會跟你討論這個主題，我的孩子－－你過於激動，並不太清楚你在說什麼。我只想指出的是，即使大衛·利昂是你父親的朋友，大衛·羅西還是你自己的敵人。"</p>
<p>"What of that? It's my own affair, isn't it? If I choose to forgive him,
what matter is it to anybody else? I <i>do</i> forgive him! Now, whose
business is it except my own?"</p><p>"那又怎樣？這是我的事情，不是嗎？如果我選擇原諒他，別人有什麼關係？我就是原諒他！現在，除了我自己，還有誰關心這個事情？"</p>
<p>"My dear Roma, I might tell you that it's mine also, and<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00228" title="176"><a id="Page_176" title="176"></a></span> that the
insult that went through you was aimed at me. But I will not speak of
myself.... That you should change your plans so entirely, and setting
out a month ago to ... to ... shall I say betray ... this man Rossi, you
are now striving to save him, is a problem which admits of only one
explanation, and that is that ... that you...."</p><p>"我親愛的羅馬，我可能會告訴你，這同樣也是對我。透過你的侮辱是對我有針對性的。但我不會談論我自己......你應該完全改變你的計劃，並在一個月前出發......去......我是否該說背叛......這個名叫羅西的男人，你現在正在努力拯救他，只有一個解釋，那就是......你......."</p>
<p>"That I love him—yes, that's the truth," said Roma boldly, but flushing
up to the eyes and trembling with fear.</p><p>"我愛他，沒錯，那是事實，"羅馬大膽地說，但是臉上泛紅，身體在恐懼中顫抖。</p>
<p>There was a death-like pause in the duel. Both dropped their heads, and
the silent face in the bust seemed to be looking down on them. Then the
Baron's icy cheeks quivered visibly, and he said in a low, hoarse voice:</p><p>在決鬥中，彷彿死神般的沉默。兩人的頭都低了下來， 雕像上的安靜面孔似乎在注視著他們。然後，男爵冰冷的臉頰明顯地顫抖了，他用低沉而嘶啞的聲音說：</p>
<p>"I'm sorry! Very sorry! For in that case I may be compelled to justify
your conclusion that a Minister has no humanity and no pity. If David
Rossi cannot be arrested by the authorisation of Parliament, he must be
arrested when Parliament is not in session, and then his identity will
have to be established in a public tribunal. In that event you will be
forced to appear, and having refused to make a private statement in the
secrecy of a magistrate's office, you will be compelled to testify in
the Court of Assize."</p><p>"我很抱歉！真的很抱歉！因為在這種情況下，我可能會被迫證明你們的結論是對的，即一個部長沒有人性和憐憫之心。如果大衛·羅西無法靠著國會的授權被逮捕，那麼他必須在國會不在會議的時候被逮捕，然後他的身份將必須在公開法庭來確認。在這種情況下，你將被迫出庭，並且在拒絕在法官辦公室的秘密下做出私人陳述之後，你將被迫在刑庭作證。"</p>
<p>"Ah, but you can't make me do that!" cried Roma excitedly, as if seized
by a sudden thought.</p><p>"啊，但你不能逼我做那個！" 羅馬激動地喊道，好像被一個突然的想法抓住了一樣。</p>
<p>"Why not?"</p><p>"為什麼不?"</p>
<p>"Never mind why not. You can't do it, I tell you," she cried excitedly.</p><p>"不要問為什麼不能。你不能做這個，我告訴你，"她激動地喊道。</p>
<p>He looked at her as if trying to penetrate her meaning, and then said:</p><p>他看著她，好像在努力理解她的意思，然後說道：</p>
<p>"We shall see."</p><p>"我們會看到的。"</p>
<p>At that moment the fretful voice of the Countess was heard calling to
the Baron from the adjoining room.</p><p>在那一刻，來自隔壁房間的伯爵夫人焦躁不安的聲音呼喚著男爵。</p>
<h3 id="pgepubid00229">II</h3>
<p>Roma went to her bedroom when the Baron left her, and remained there
until late in the afternoon. In spite of the bold front she had put on,
she was quaking with terror and tortured by remorse. Never before had
she realised David Rossi's peril with such awful vividness, and seen her
own position in relation to him in its hideous nakedness.</p><p>當男爵離開她之後，羅馬去了她的臥室，並且一直待到傍晚很晚的時間。儘管她已經做出了毫不畏懼的表現，她仍然被恐懼和悔恨折磨。她從未如此清晰地意識到大衛·羅西的危險，也從未以如此奇特的恐懼看到自己與他的關係。</p>
<p>Was it her duty to confess to David Rossi that at the beginning of their
friendship she had set out to betray him?<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00230" title="177"><a id="Page_177" title="177"></a></span> Only so could she be secure,
only so could she be honest, only so could she be true to the love he
gave her and the trust he reposed in her.</p><p>是她有責任向大衛·羅西承認，在他們的友誼之初，她曾計劃背叛他嗎?只有這樣，她才能感到安心，只有這樣，她才能保持誠實，只有這樣，她才能對他對她的愛和信任保持真實。</p>
<p>Yet why should she confess? The abominable impulse was gone. Something
sweet and tender had taken its place. To confess to him now would be
cruel. It would wound his beautiful faith in her.</p><p>然而，她為什么要承認呢？那種可惡的衝動已經消失了。取而代之的是某種甜蜜和溫柔的感覺。現在向他承認，將是一種殘酷。這會傷害到他對她的美好信任。</p>
<p>And yet the seeds she had sown were beginning to fructify. They might
spring up anywhere at any moment, and choke the life that was dearer to
her than her own. Thank God, it was still impossible to injure him
except by her will and assistance. But her will might be broken and her
assistance might be forced, unless the law could be invoked to protect
her against itself. It could and it should be invoked! When she was
married to David Rossi no law in Italy would compel her to witness
against him.</p><p>"然而，她播下的種子已經開始結果。這些種子可能隨時隨地生長出來，扼殺比她自己的生命更重要的生命。感謝上帝，除非透過她的意志和協助，否則他仍然不可能受到傷害。但是，她的意志可能會被打破，她的協助可能會被強迫，除非法律能夠被呼喚來保護她免受自己的傷害。法律可以且應該被呼喚！當她與大衛·羅西結婚時，義大利的法律不會強迫她作證反對他。"</p>
<p>But if Rossi hesitated from any cause, if he delayed their marriage, if
he replied unfavourably to the letter in which she had put aside all
modesty and asked him to marry her soon—what then? How was she to
explain his danger? How was she to tell him that he must marry her
before Parliament rose, or she might be the means of expelling him from
the Chamber, and perhaps casting him into prison for life? How was she
to say: "I was Delilah; I set out to betray you, and unless you marry me
the wicked work is done!"</p><p>`但是，如果羅西從任何原因猶豫不決，如果他延遲他們的婚禮，如果他對她放下所有謙虛並請求他早點與她結婚的信回答得不合情理，那又該怎麼辦？她該如何解釋他的危險？她該如何告訴他，他必須在議會休會前與她結婚，否則她可能成為驅逐他出議會，甚至可能使他被判終身監禁的原因？她該如何說：“我是利拉，我出來背叛你，除非你與我結婚，否則邪惡的工作就完成了！”`</p>
<p>The afternoon was far spent; she had eaten nothing since morning, and
was lying face down on the bed, when a knock came to the door.</p><p>下午的時光已經過去了很久；自早晨以來，她什麼都沒吃，正躺在床上，面朝下，這時門外傳來了敲門聲。</p>
<p>"The person in the studio to see you," said Felice.</p><p>"工作室的人要見你，"Felice說。</p>
<p>It was Bruno in Sunday attire, with little Joseph in top-boots, and more
than ever like the cub of a young lion.</p><p>那是穿著星期日正式服裝的布魯諾，小約瑟夫穿著高筒靴，比以往更像一頭年輕獅子的幼崽。</p>
<p>"A letter from him," said Bruno.</p><p>"他的一封信," 布魯諾說。</p>
<p>It was from Rossi. She took it without a word of greeting, and went back
to her bedroom. But when she returned a moment afterwards her face was
transformed. The clouds had gone from it and the old radiance had
returned. All the brightness and gaiety of her usual expression were
there as she came swinging into the drawing-room and filling the air
with the glow of health and happiness.</p><p>這是來自羅西的。她在沒有任何問候的情況下接過它，然後回到了她的臥室。但當她一會兒後返回時，她的臉蛋顯得完全不同。臉上的陰霾已經消失，舊日的光輝已經回來了。她平常的表情中全部的明亮和歡樂都在她身影搖曳著進入繪畫室，充滿空氣的健康和幸福的光芒的時候，依舊存在。</p>
<p>"<i>That's</i> all right," she said. "Tell Mr. Rossi I shall expect to see
him soon ... or no, don't say that ... say that as he is over head and
ears in work this week, he is not to think it necessary.... Oh, say
anything you like," she said,<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00231" title="178"><a id="Page_178" title="178"></a></span> and the pearly teeth and lovely eyes
broke into an aurora of smiles.</p><p>"沒關係，"她說。"告訴羅西先生我期待很快能見到他...或者不，不需要這麼說...說他這週工作忙得不可開交，所以不需要認為這是必要的...噢，你想說什麼就說，"她說，然後搭配著她珍珠般的牙齒和可愛的眼睛，綻放出迷人的笑容。</p>
<p>Bruno, whose bushy face and shaggy head had never once been raised since
he came into the room, said:</p><p>"Bruno, 自從走進房間以來，那毛茸茸的臉和蓬鬆的頭從未抬起過，說道："</p>
<p>"He's busy enough, anyway—what with this big meeting coming off on
Wednesday, and the stairs to his room as full of people as the Santa
Scala."</p><p>"他已經夠忙的了——週三有一場重要會議，而他的房間樓梯上擠滿了人，就像聖塔斯加拉一樣。"</p>
<p>"So you've brought little Joseph to see me at last?" said Roma.</p><p>"所以你終於帶小約瑟夫來見我了？" 羅馬說。</p>
<p>"He has bothered my life out to bring him ever since you said he was to
be your porter some day."</p><p>"自從你說他將來會成為你的搬運工，他就一直煩擾我的生活，催我帶他過來。"</p>
<p>"And why not? Gentlemen ought to call on the ladies, oughtn't they,
Joseph?"</p><p>"那為什麼不能呢？紳士應該去拜訪女士，不是嗎，約瑟夫？"</p>
<p>And Joseph, whose curly poll had been hiding behind the leg of his
father's trousers, showed half of a face that was shining all over.</p><p>"而約瑟夫，他的捲曲的頭髮一直隱藏在他父親的褲子腿後面，露出了一張全身閃亮的臉。"</p>
<p>"See! See here—do you know who <i>this</i> is? This gentleman in the bust?"</p><p>"看！看這裡 - 你知道這是誰嗎？ 你看這個半身像中的紳士是誰？"</p>
<p>"Uncle David," said the boy.</p><p>"大衛叔叔," 男孩說。</p>
<p>"What a clever boy you are, Joseph!"</p><p>“你真是個聰明的男孩，約瑟夫！”</p>
<p>"Doesn't want much cleverness to know that, though," said Bruno. "It's
wonderful! it's magnificent! And it will shut up all their damned ...
excuse me, miss, excuse <i>me</i>."</p><p>"儘管知道這不需要太多智慧，"布魯諾說。 "這太驚奇了！這太壯觀了！這會讓他們所有該死的......對不起，小姐，對不起。"</p>
<p>"And Joseph still intends to be a porter?"</p><p>"約瑟夫還打算當個搬運工嗎？"</p>
<p>"Dead set on it, and says he wouldn't change his profession to be a
king."</p><p>"他堅決這樣做，並說他寧願當一個國王也不願改變他的職業。"</p>
<p>"Quite right, too! And now let us look at something a little birdie
brought me the other day. Come along, Joseph. Here it is. Down on your
knees, gentleman, and help me to drag it out. One—two—and away!"</p><p>"完全正確！現在讓我們來看看小鳥前幾天帶給我的東西。來吧，約瑟夫。就在這裡。下跪，先生，幫我把它拉出來。一—二—然後走！"</p>
<p>From the knee-hole of the desk came a large cardboard box, and Joseph's
eyes glistened like big black beads.</p><p>"從書桌的膝洞裡出來一個大紙板箱，約瑟夫的眼睛像大黑珠子一般閃閃發光。"</p>
<p>"Now, what do you think is in this box, Joseph? Can't guess? Give it up?
Sure? Well, listen! Are you listening? Which do you think you would like
best—a porter's cocked hat, or a porter's long coat, or a porter's mace
with a gilt hat and a tassel?"</p><p>"現在，你認為這個盒子裡裝的是什麼東西，約瑟夫？猜不出來嗎？放棄了？
確定嗎？好，聽好了！你在聽嗎？你認為你會更喜歡哪一樣——一頂搬運工的尖頂帽，或是一件搬運工的長衣，又或是一根帶著鍍金帽和流蘇的搬運工的權杖呢？"</p>
<p>Joseph's face, which had gleamed at every item, clouded and cleared,
cleared and clouded at the cruel difficulty of choice, and finally
looked over at Bruno for help.</p><p>約瑟夫的面孔在每一件事物面前都會放光，但在殘酷的選擇面前又會變得陰霾，然後又會清晰起來。最後，他看向布魯諾尋求幫助。</p>
<p>"Choose now—which?"</p><p>"現在選擇 - 哪一個?"</p>
<p>But Joseph only sidled over to his father, and whispered something which
Roma could not hear.<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00232" title="179"><a id="Page_179" title="179"></a></span></p><p>但是約瑟夫只是偷偷地走到他父親身邊，低語了一些羅馬聽不到的話。</p>
<p>"What does he say?"</p><p>"他說了什麼？"</p>
<p>"He says it is his birthday on Wednesday," said Bruno.</p><p>"他說他的生日是在星期三,"布魯諾說。</p>
<p>"Bless him! He shall have them all, then," said Roma, and Joseph's legs
as well as his eyes began to dance.</p><p>"祝福他！那麼他就可以全得了，" 羅馬說，約瑟夫的腿和眼睛開始舞動。</p>
<p>The cords were cut, the box was opened, the wonderful hat and coat and
mace were taken out, and Joseph was duly invested. In the midst of this
ceremony Roma's black poodle came bounding into the room, and when
Joseph strutted out of the boudoir into the drawing-room the dog went
leaping and barking beside him.</p><p>繩索被剪斷，箱子被打開，美妙的帽子，外套和權杖被拿出來，而約瑟夫被正式裝備。在這個儀式中，羅馬的黑色貴賓犬蹦蹦跳跳地跑進了房間，當約瑟夫走出閨房進入畫廊時，狗在他身邊跳來跳去，吠叫不止。</p>
<p>"Dear little soul!" said Roma, looking after the child; but Bruno, who
was sitting with his head down, only answered with a groan.</p><p>"親愛的小靈魂！"羅馬看著孩子之後說，但布魯諾，他低著頭坐著，只回答了一聲呻吟。</p>
<p>"What is the matter, Bruno?" she asked.</p><p>"布魯諾，你怎麼了？" 她問。</p>
<p>Bruno brushed his coat-sleeve across his eyes, set his teeth, and said
with a savage fierceness:</p><p>"布魯諾揮動他的大衣袖子擦過他的眼睛，他緊咬著牙，以一種野蠻的兇猛說："
</p>
<p>"What's the matter? Treason's the matter, telling tales and taking away
a good woman's character—that's what is the matter! A man who has been
eating your bread for years has been lying about you, and he is a rascal
and a sneak and a damned scoundrel, and I would like to kick him out of
the house."</p><p>"什麼事？問題就是叛徒的事，說謊和破壞一個好女人的人格——這就是問題！一個已經吃了你多年麵包的人一直在背後說你的壞話，他是一個惡棍，一個偷偷摸摸的傢伙，一個該死的無賴，我很想把他踢出這個家。”</p>
<p>"And who has been doing all this, Bruno?"</p><p>"那麼，布魯諾，是誰做了所有這些呢？"</p>
<p>"Myself! It was I who told Mr. Rossi the lies that made him speak
against you on the day of the Pope's Jubilee, and when you asked him to
come here, I warned him against you, and said you were only going to pay
him back and ruin him."</p><p>"是我！是我對羅西先生說了謊，使他在教皇禧年的那一天對你發表了抨擊。當你邀請他來這裡的時候，我警告他要小心你，我說你只是想報復他，並將他摧毀。"</p>
<p>"So you said that, did you?"</p><p>"所以你是這樣說的，是嗎？"</p>
<p>"Yes, I did."</p><p>"是的，我做了。"</p>
<p>"And what did Mr. Rossi say to you?"</p><p>"羅西先生對你說了什麼？"</p>
<p>"Say to me? 'She's a good woman,' says he, 'and if I have ever said
otherwise, I take it all back, and am ashamed.'"</p><p>對我說？他說：“她是個好女人，如果我曾經說過別的，我全部收回，並且感到羞愧。”</p>
<p>Roma, who had turned to the window, heaved a sigh and said: "It has all
come out right in the end, Bruno. If you hadn't spoken against me to Mr.
Rossi, he wouldn't have spoken against me in the piazza, and then he and
I should never have met and known each other and been friends. All's
well that ends well, you know."</p><p>盧馬轉向窗戶，嘆了口氣，然後說：“最終，一切都變得很好，布魯諾。如果你沒有在羅西先生面前反對我，他就不會在廣場上反對我，然後他和我就不會相遇，認識彼此，並成為朋友。結局好，就是一切都好，你知道的。”</p>
<p>"Perhaps so, but the miracle doesn't make the saint, and you oughtn't to
keep me any longer."</p><p>"也許是這樣，但是奇蹟並不能創造聖人，你不應該再讓我待在這裡了。"</p>
<p>"Do you mean that I ought to dismiss you?"<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00233" title="180"><a id="Page_180" title="180"></a></span></p><p>"你是說我應該解僱你嗎？"</p>
<p>"Yes."</p><p>"是的。"</p>
<p>"Bruno," said Roma, "I am in trouble just now, and I may be in worse
trouble by-and-by. I don't know how long I may be able to keep you as a
servant, but I may want you as a friend, and if you leave me now...."</p><p>「布魯諾，」洛馬說，「我現在遇到麻煩了，我不知道以後會不會遇到更大的麻煩。我也不知道我能夠保住你作為我的僕人多久，但我可能需要你做我的朋友，如果你現在離開我....」</p>
<p>"Oh, put it like that, miss, and I'll never leave you, and as for your
enemies...."</p><p>"哦，小姐，如果你這樣說，我將永遠不會離開你，至於你的敵人...."</p>
<p>Bruno was doubling up the sleeve of his right arm, when Joseph and the
poodle came back to the room. Roma received them with a merry cry, and
there was much noise and laughter. At length the gorgeous garments were
taken off, the cardboard box was corded, and Bruno and the boy prepared
to go.</p><p>當布魯諾正在捲起右臂的袖子時，約瑟夫和獅子狗回到了房間。羅馬歡快地叫了起來，他們非常嘈雜和愉快地笑了起來。最終，那些華麗的衣服被脫下，紙板盒被捆綁，布魯諾和男孩準備離開。</p>
<p>"You'll come again, won't you, Joseph?" said Roma, and the boy's face
beamed.</p><p>"你會再來的，對吧，約瑟夫？"羅馬說，男孩的臉上洋溢燦爛的笑容。</p>
<p>"I suppose this little man means a good deal to his mother, Bruno?"</p><p>"我想這個小傢伙對他的母親意義重大，不是嗎，布魯諾?"</p>
<p>"Everything! I do believe she'd die, or disappear, or drown herself if
anything happened to that boy."</p><p>"一切！我真的相信，如果那個男孩發生了什麼事，她將會死去，消失，或者淹死自己。"</p>
<p>"And Mr. Rossi?"</p><p>"那麼，羅西先生呢？"</p>
<p>"He's been a second father to the boy ever since the young monkey was
born."</p><p>"自從那隻小猴子出生以來，他一直像他的第二個父親。"</p>
<p>"Well, Joseph must come here sometimes, and let me try and be a second
mother to him too.... What is he saying now?"</p><p>"嗯，約瑟夫有時也得來這裡，讓我試圖成為他的第二個母親....他現在在說什麼呢?"</p>
<p>Joseph had dragged down his father's head to whisper something in his
ear.</p><p>約瑟夫拉低了他父親的頭，低聲在他耳邊說些什麼。</p>
<p>"He says he's frightened of your big porter downstairs."</p><p>"他說他害怕你樓下的大門房。"</p>
<p>"Frightened of <i>him</i>! He is only a man, my precious! Tell him you are a
little Roman boy, and he'll <i>have</i> to let you up. Will you remember? You
will? That's right! By-bye!"</p><p>"你怕他！他只是個人而已，我的寶貝！告訴他你是一個小羅馬男孩，他就得讓你起來。你會記住嗎？會嗎？那就對了！再見了！"</p>
<p>Before going to sleep that night, Roma switched on the light that hung
above her head and read her letter again. She had been hoarding it up
for that secret hour, and now she was alone with it, and all the world
was still.</p><p>在那晚入睡之前，羅馬開啟了掛在頭上的燈，再次閱讀她的信。她一直在秘密的時間裡珍藏著它，而現在她與它獨處，全世界都安靜了下來。</p>
<p style="padding-top:.5em; text-align:right;">"<i>Saturday Night</i>.</p><p style="padding-top:.5em; text-align:right;">"星期六晚上。"</p>
<p>"<span class="smcap">My Dear One</span>,—Your sweet letter brought me the intoxication of delight,
and the momentous matter you speak of is under way. It is my turn to be
ashamed of all the great to-do I made about the obstacles to our union
when I see how courageous you can be. Oh, how brave women are—every<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" title="181"><a id="Page_181" title="181"></a></span>
woman who ever marries a man! To take her heart into her hands, and face
the unknown in the fate of another being, to trust her life into his
keeping, knowing that if he falls she falls too, and will never be the
same again! What <i>man</i> could do it? Not one who was ever born into the
world. Yet some woman does it every day, promising some man that she
will—let me finish your quotation—</p><p>"親愛的你，- 你的甜蜜信件帶給我陶醉的喜悅，而你所說的重大事情正在進行中。當我看到你可以如此勇敢時，輪到我為我曾大肆宣揚對我們團結的障礙而感到羞愧。哦，女人們是多麼的勇敢- 每個嫁給男人的女人！把她的心放在她的手上，面對另一個生物命運中的未知，把她的生活託付到他的保護之下，知道如果他摔倒她也會跟著摔倒，並且再也不會是以前的她！哪個男人能做到？世界上出生的男人沒有一個可以。然而每天都有女人這樣做，承諾給某個男人她會 - 讓我完成你的引語-"</p>
<p style="margin-left: 1em;">
"'Meet, if thou require it,<br/>
<span style="margin-left: 1em;">Both demands,</span><br/>
Laying flesh and spirit<br/>
<span style="margin-left: 1em;">In thy hands.'</span><br/>
</p><p style="margin-left: 1em;">"如果你需要的話，讓我們相見，
滿足這兩個需求，
把身體和精神
交到你的手中。"</p>
<p>"Don't think I am too much troubled about the Minghelli matter, and yet
it is pitiful to think how merciless the world can be even in the matter
of a man's name. A name is only a word, but it is everything to the man
who bears it—honour or dishonour, poverty or wealth, a blessing or a
curse. If it is a good name, everybody tries to take it away from him,
but if it's a bad name and he has attempted to drop it, everybody tries
to fix it on him afresh.</p><p>"別以為我對明赫利的事情太過於煩惱，然而想到世界對於一個人的名字所能表現出的無情，實在令人感到悲哀。名字只不過是一個詞，但對於擁有該名字的人來說，它卻是一切——無論是榮譽或恥辱，貧窮或財富，祝福或詛咒。如果是好名字，每個人都試圖從他手中奪走它，但如果它是個壞名字，他試圖拋棄它，每個人都試圖重新把它貼在他身上。"</p>
<p>"The name I was compelled to leave behind me when I returned to Italy
was a bad name in nothing except that it was the name of my father, and
if the spies and ferrets of authority ever fix it upon me God only knows
what mischief they may do. But one thing <i>I</i> know—that if they do fix
my father's name upon me, and bring me to the penalties which the law
has imposed on it, it will not be by help of my darling, my beloved, my
brave, brave girl with the heart of gold.</p><p>"我被迫在回義大利時留下的名字，除了是我父親的名字，沒有任何壞處。如果權力的間諜和獵犬們曾經把它定在我身上，只有上帝知道他們可能會造成什麼損害。但是我知道一件事 - 如果他們確定我帶有父親的名字，並讓我接受法律對它所施加的懲罰，那絕不會是我心愛的、我的寵愛、我的勇敢、金心的女孩的幫助下完成的。"</p>
<p>"Dearest, I wrote to the Capitol immediately on receiving your letter,
and to-morrow morning I will go down myself to see that everything is in
train. I don't yet know how many days are necessary to the preparations,
but earlier than Thursday it would not be wise to fix the event, seeing
that Wednesday is the day of the great mass meeting in the Coliseum,
and, although the police have proclaimed it, I have told the people they
are to come. There is some risk at the outset, which it would be
reckless to run, and in any case the time is short.</p><p>"親愛的，我在收到你的信後立刻寫信給首都，明早我將親自去確保一切都在進行中。我還不知道準備需要多少天，但最早也不應該在週四之前確定這個事件，因為週三是大型集會在體育館的日子，雖然警察已經宣佈了，但我告訴人們他們應該來。一開始有一些風險，這將是魯莽的行為，而且無論如何時間都很短。"</p>
<p>"Good-night! I can't take my pen off the paper. Writing to you is like
talking to you, and every now and then I stop and shut my eyes, and hear
your voice replying. Only it is myself who make the answers, and they
are not half so<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00234" title="182"><a id="Page_182" title="182"></a></span> sweet as they would be in reality. Ah, dear heart, if
you only knew how my life was full of silence until you came into it,
and now it is full of music! Good-night, again!</p><p>"晚安！我無法讓筆離開紙面。給你寫信就像和你談話，偶爾我會停下來，閉上眼睛，聽到你的聲音回答。只是回答的是我自己，他們並不像實際情況那樣甜蜜。哦，親愛的，如果你知道在你進入我的生活之前，我的生活是多麼寂靜，現在它充滿了音樂！再次晚安！"</p>
<p style="text-align:right; margin-top:-1em; padding-bottom:.5em;">"D. R.</p><p style="text-align:right; margin-top:-1em; padding-bottom:.5em;">"D. R."</p>
<p style="padding-top:.5em; text-align:right;">"<i>Sunday Morning.</i></p><p style="padding-top:.5em; text-align:right;">"星期日早晨。"</p>
<p>"Just returned from the Capitol. The legal notice for the celebration of
a marriage is longer than I expected. It seems that the ordinary term
must be twelve days at least, covering two successive Sundays (on which
the act of publication is posted on the board outside the office) and
three days over. Only twelve days more, my dear one, and you will be
mine, mine, mine, and all the world will know!"</p><p>"我剛從國會大廈回來。結婚慶祝活動的法定通知比我預期的要長。看來，常規期限至少應為十二天，包括二個連續的星期日（在這兩天裡公告將掛在辦公室外的公告板上）再加上三天。親愛的，只有十二天了，你就會是我的，我的，全部的我的，全世界都會知道！"</p>
<p style="padding-bottom:.5em;">It took Roma a good three-quarters of an hour to read this letter, for
nearly every word seemed to be written out of a lover's lexicon, which
bore secret meanings of delicious import, and imperiously demanded their
physical response from the reader's lips. At length she put it between
the pillow and her cheek, to help the sweet delusion that she was cheek
to cheek with some one and had his strong, protecting arms about her.
Then she lay a long time, with eyes open and shining in the darkness,
trying in vain to piece together the features of his face. But in the
first dream of her first sleep she saw him plainly, and then she ran,
she raced, she rushed to his embrace.</p><p style="padding-bottom:.5em;">羅馬花了整整三四朝時讀完了這封信,因為幾乎每個字都似乎從一個情人的辭典中寫出，帶有美味的秘密含義，並命令讀者的嘴唇產生身體回應。最後，她把它放在枕頭和臉頰之間，幫助她甜蜜的錯覺，使她覺得她與某人臉頰相蹭，並且他強壯的保護手臂環繞她。然後，她長時間躺在那裡，眼睛在黑暗中開著，閃爍著，試圖將他臉部的特徵拼湊在一起，但都無濟於事。但在她第一次睡眠的第一個夢中，她清楚地看到了他，然後她跑，她競跑，她沖向他的懷抱。</p>
<p>Next day brought a message from the Baron:</p><p>下一天來自男爵的消息：</p>
<p style="padding-top:.5em"><span class="smcap">"Dear Roma</span>,—Come to the Palazzo Braschi to-morrow (Tuesday) morning at
eleven o'clock. Don't refuse, and don't hesitate. If you do not come,
you will regret it as long as you live, and reproach yourself for ever
afterwards.—Yours,</p><p style="padding-top:.5em">"親愛的羅馬，—請在明天（星期二）上午十一點來布拉斯基宮。不要拒絕，也不要猶豫。如果你不來，你會後悔一生，並永遠自責。—你的,"</p>
<p style="text-align:right; margin-top:-1em;">"<span class="smcap">Bonelli</span>."</p><p style="text-align:right; margin-top:-1em;">"博內利"</p>
<h3 id="pgepubid00235">III</h3>
<p>The Palazzo Braschi is a triangular palace, whereof one front faces to
the Piazza Navona and the two other fronts to side streets. It is the
official palace of the Minister of the Interior, usually the President
of the Council and Prime Minister of Italy.</p><p>巴拉奇宮是一座三角形的宮殿，其中一面對著納沃納廣場，其他兩面對著側街。 這是內政部長的官邸，通常是義大利的理事會主席和總理。</p>
<p>Roma arrived at eleven o'clock, and was taken to the Minister's room
immediately, by way of an outer chamber,<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00236" title="183"><a id="Page_183" title="183"></a></span> in which colleagues and
secretaries were waiting their turn for an interview. The Baron was
seated at a table covered with books and papers. There was a fur rug
across his knees, and at his right hand lay a small ivory-handled
revolver. He rose as Roma entered, and received her with his great but
glacial politeness.</p><p>羅馬於十一點抵達，並被立即帶至部長的辦公室，途經一個外面的房間，同事們和秘書們正在那裡等待會面的輪序。男爵坐在一張滿是書籍和檔案的桌子旁，膝部橫著一條皮毛地毯，右手邊則是一把小巧的象牙手柄手槍。當羅馬進入時，他起身，以他那大方但冷淡的禮貌迎接她。</p>
<p>"How prompt! And how sweet you look to-day, my child! On a cheerless
morning like this you bring the sun itself into a poor Minister's gloomy
cabinet. Sit down."</p><p>"你多麼的迅速！今天你看上去多麼甜美，我的孩子！在如此沉悶的早晨，你就像把太陽本身帶入了一個可憐的部長的陰暗的內閣。坐下。"</p>
<p>"You wished to see me?" said Roma.</p><p>"你想見我嗎？"羅馬說。</p>
<p>The Baron rested his elbow on the table, leaned his head on his hand,
looked at her with his never-varying smile, and said:</p><p>男爵把肘部放在桌子上，用手撐起頭，用他永不變的微笑看著她，並說道：</p>
<p>"I hear you are to be congratulated, my dear."</p><p>"我聽說你值得恭喜，我的親愛的。"</p>
<p>She changed colour slightly.</p><p>她的臉色略有變化。</p>
<p>"Are you surprised that I know?" he asked.</p><p>"你驚訝我知道嗎？" 他問。</p>
<p>"Why should I be surprised?" she answered. "You know everything.
Besides, this is published at the Capitol, and therefore common
knowledge."</p><p>"我為什麼要感到驚訝？”她回答，“你什麼都知道。再者，這是在國會公佈的，所以是公眾知識。”</p>
<p>His smiling face remained perfectly impassive.</p><p>他的笑臉仍然完全冷漠。</p>
<p>"Now I understand what you meant on Sunday. It is a fact that a wife
cannot be called as a witness against her husband."</p><p>"現在我明白你星期日所說的意思。事實上，妻子不能被視為對丈夫的證人。"</p>
<p>She knew he was watching her face as if looking into the inmost recesses
of her soul.</p><p>她知道他正盯著她的臉，彷彿在窺視她靈魂的深處。</p>
<p>"But isn't it a little courageous of you to think of marriage?"</p><p>"但你不覺得想結婚需要一點勇氣嗎?"</p>
<p>"Why courageous?" she asked, but her eyes fell and the colour mounted to
her cheek.</p><p>"為什麼要勇敢?" 她問道，但她的眼神卻落下，臉色漸漸變紅。</p>
<p>"<i>Why</i> courageous?" he repeated.</p><p>"為什麼需要勇氣？"他重複道。</p>
<p>He allowed a short time to elapse, and then he said in a a low tone,
"Considering the past, and all that has happened...."</p><p>他讓一段短暫的時間流逝，然後他用低沉的語氣說道，“考慮到過去，以及所有發生過的事情...."</p>
<p>Her eyelids trembled and she rose to her feet.</p><p>她的眼瞼顫抖，她站了起來。</p>
<p>"If this is all you wish to say to me...."</p><p>"如果這就是你想對我說的所有話...."</p>
<p>"No, no! Sit down, my child. I sent for you in order to show you that
the marriage you contemplate may be difficult, perhaps impossible."</p><p>"不，不！坐下，我的孩子。我叫你過來是為了告訴你，你想要的婚姻可能會困難，甚至可能是不可能的。"</p>
<p>"I am of age—there can be no impediment."</p><p>"我已成年—沒有任何阻礙。"</p>
<p>"There may be the greatest of all impediments, my dear."</p><p>"這可能是所有障礙中最大的，我的親愛的。"</p>
<p>"What do you mean?"</p><p>"你是什麼意思？"</p>
<p>"I mean ... But wait! You are not in a hurry? A number of gentlemen are
waiting to see me, and if you will<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00237" title="184"><a id="Page_184" title="184"></a></span> permit me to ring for my
secretary.... Don't move. Colleagues merely! They will not object to
<i>your</i> presence. My ward, you know—almost a member of my own household.
Ah, here is the secretary. Who now?"</p><p>"我是說... 但等等！你不急吧？有一些先生們正在等著見我，如果你允許我叫我的秘書.... 不要動。他們只是我的同事！他們不會反對你在場。你知道，我的被監護人 — 幾乎是我家的一員。啊，這是我的秘書。現在是誰?"</p>
<p>"The Minister of War, the Prefect, Commendatore Angelelli, and one of
his delegates," replied the secretary.</p><p>"這是戰爭部長，司令，推薦者安吉萊利以及他的一位代表，"秘書回答。</p>
<p>"Bring the Prefect first," said the Baron, and a severe-looking man of
military bearing entered the room.</p><p>“首先帶來警長，”男爵說，然後一個看起來嚴肅的軍事風度的男人進入了房間。</p>
<p>"Come in, Senator. You know Donna Roma. Our business is urgent—she will
allow us to go on. I am anxious to hear how things stand and what you
are doing."</p><p>"請進來，參議員。你認識唐娜·羅馬。我們的事情很迫切——她會讓我們繼續。我很想知道情況如何，你正在做什麼。"</p>
<p>The Prefect began on his report. Immediately the new law was promulgated
by royal decree, he had sent out a circular to all the Mayors in his
province, stating the powers it gave the police to dissolve associations
and forbid public meetings.</p><p>警察總監開始報告。新法律一經皇家法令宣佈，他立刻向他省內的所有市長發出一份公告，闡述這項法令賦予警察的權力，允許他們解散組織並禁止公開集會。</p>
<p>"But what can we expect in the provincial towns, your Excellency, while
in the capital we are doing nothing? The chief of all subversive
societies is in Rome, and the directing mind is at large among
ourselves. Listen to this, sir."</p><p>"但是，閣下，我們在省城能期望什麼，當我們在首都什麼也沒做？所有顛覆性社會的首腦人物正在羅馬，而主導者從我們中間逍遙法外。請聽聽這個，先生。"</p>
<p>The Prefect took a newspaper from his pocket and began to read:</p><p>區長從他的口袋裡拿出一份報紙並開始閱讀：</p>
<p style="padding-top:.5em; padding-bottom:.5em">"<span class="smcap">Romans</span>,—The new law is an attempt to deprive us of liberties which our
fathers made revolutions to establish. It is, therefore, our duty to
resist it, and to this end we must hold our meeting on the 1st of
February according to our original intention. Only thus can we show the
Government and the King what it is to oppose the public opinion of the
world.... Meet in the Piazza del Popolo at sundown and walk to the
Coliseum by way of the Corso. Be peaceful and orderly, and God put it
into the hearts of your rulers to avert bloodshed."</p><p style="padding-top:.5em; padding-bottom:.5em">"羅馬人，新的法律試圖剝奪我們的自由，這些自由是我們的父輩透過革命來建立的。因此，我們有責任反抗它，為了這個目的，我們必須按照我們原始的意圖在二月一日舉行我們的聚會。只有這樣，我們才能向政府和國王顯示反對世界公眾意見的後果。....在日落時分在波波洛廣場集合，並沿著科索大道走向羅馬競技場。保持平靜和秩序，願上帝使你們的統治者心中免於流血之災。"</p>
<p>"That is from the <i>Sunrise</i>?"</p><p>"那是來自日出嗎？"</p>
<p>"Yes, sir, the last of many manifestoes. And what is the result? The
people are flocking into Rome from every part of the province."</p><p>"是的，先生，這是許多公告的最後一個。結果呢？人們正從省份的每個角落湧入羅馬。"</p>
<p>"And how many political pilgrims are here already?"</p><p>"那裡已經有多少政治朝聖者了？"</p>
<p>"Fifty thousand, sixty, perhaps a hundred thousand. It cannot be allowed
to go on, your Excellency."</p><p>"五萬，六萬，甚至可能有十萬。這情況不能繼續下去，閣下。"</p>
<p>"It is a <i>levée-en-masse</i> certainly. What do you advise?"</p><p>"這確實是一次群眾起義。你有什麼建議?"</p>
<p>"That the enemies of the Government and the State,<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00238" title="185"><a id="Page_185" title="185"></a></span> whose erroneous
conceptions of liberty have led to this burst of anarchist feelings, be
left to the operation of the police laws."</p><p>"讓那些對政府和國家持敵意的人，他們對自由的誤解導致了這種無政府主義的情緒爆發，被警察法律的運作所遺棄。"</p>
<p>The Baron glanced at Roma. Her face was flushed and her eyes were
flashing.</p><p>男爵看了看羅馬。她的臉色潮紅，眼中閃爍著光芒。</p>
<p>"That," he said, "may be difficult, considering the number of the
discontented. What is the strength of your police?"</p><p>"那個，"他說，"可能很困難，考慮到不滿的人數。你的警力是多少?"</p>
<p>"Seven hundred in uniform, four hundred in plain clothes, and five
hundred and fifty municipal guards. Besides these, sir, there are three
thousand Carabineers and eight thousand regular troops."</p><p>"七百名著制服的人，四百名便衣，和五百五十名市政警衛。除此之外，先生，還有三千名卡拉賓槍手和八千名的正規軍隊。"</p>
<p>"Say twelve thousand five hundred armed men in all?"</p><p>"總共有一萬二千五百名武裝的人嗎？"</p>
<p>"Precisely, and what is that against fifty, a hundred, perhaps a hundred
and fifty thousand people?"</p><p>"確實，這跟五十，一百，甚至一百五十千的人有什麼比呢?"</p>
<p>"You want the army at call?"</p><p>"你希望軍隊隨叫隨到嗎？"</p>
<p>"Exactly! but above everything else we want the permission of the
Government to deal with the greater delinquents, whether Deputies or
not, according to the powers given us by the statute."</p><p>"正是如此！但最重要的是，我們需要政府的許可，根據法規賦予我們的權力，處理更嚴重的罪犯，不管他們是否是代表。"</p>
<p>The Baron rose and held out his hand. "Thanks, Senator! The Government
will consider your suggestions immediately. Be good enough to send in my
colleague, the Minister of War."</p><p>男爵起身，伸出手來。"謝謝你，參議員！政府將立即考慮你的建議。請把我的同僚，戰爭部長送進來。"</p>
<p>When the Prefect left the room Roma rose to go.</p><p>當警視離開房間時，羅馬起身離開。</p>
<p>"You cannot suppose this is very agreeable to me?" she said in an
agitated voice.</p><p>"你不能想象這對我來說有多不愉快嗎？" 她帶著激動的聲音說。</p>
<p>"Wait! I shall not be long ... Ah, General Morra! Roma, you know the
General, I think. Sit down, both of you.... Well, General, you hear of
this <i>levée-en-masse</i>?"</p><p>"等一下！我不會花太多時間的...啊，摩拉將軍！羅馬，我想你認識將軍。你們倆都坐下....那麼，將軍，你聽說過這次大規模徵兵了嗎?"</p>
<p>"I do."</p><p>"我願意。"</p>
<p>"The Prefect is satisfied that the people are moved by a revolutionary
organisation, and he is anxious to know what force we can put at his
service to control it."</p><p>"席位督察確信，人民被一個革命性的組織所撼動，他急切地想知道我們能提供多少力量來幫助他控制它。"</p>
<p>The General detailed his resources. There were sixteen thousand men
always under arms in Rome, and the War Office had called up the
old-timers of two successive years—perhaps fifty thousand in all.</p><p>將軍詳細列出了他的資源。在羅馬，有一萬六千名士兵始終在武裝之中，而戰爭辦公室則召集了連續兩年的老兵-總共大概五萬人。</p>
<p>"As a Minister of State and your colleague," said the General, "I am at
one with you in your desire to safeguard the cause of order and protect
public institutions, but as a man and a Roman I cannot but hope that you
will not call upon me to act without the conditions required by law."<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00239" title="186"><a id="Page_186" title="186"></a></span></p><p>"作為國家部長和你的同事," 將軍說, "我與你有相同的願望，那就是維護秩序的事業並保護公共機構，但作為一個男人和羅馬人，我無法不希望你不讓我在沒有法律所要求的條件下行動。"</p>
<p>"Indeed, no," said the Baron; "and in order to make sure that our
instructions are carried out with wisdom and humanity, let these be the
orders you issue to your staff: First, that in case of disturbance
to-morrow night, whether at the Coliseum or elsewhere, the officers must
wait for the proper signal from the delegate of police."</p><p>"不錯，並非如此。"男爵說："為了確保我們的指示以智慧和人性進行，你們發出的命令應該是這些：首先，在明晚出現騷亂的情況下，無論是在體育館還是其他地方，警察必須等待警察代表發出正確的訊號。"</p>
<p>"Good!"</p><p>"好的！"</p>
<p>"Next, that on receiving the order to fire, the soldiers must be careful
that their first volley goes over the heads of the people."</p><p>"接著，在接到開火的命令時，士兵們必須小心，他們的第一輪射擊須越過人群的頭頂。"</p>
<p>"Excellent!"</p><p>"極好!"</p>
<p>"If that does not disperse the crowds, if they throw stones at the
soldiers or otherwise resist, the second volley—I see no help for
it—the second volley, I say, must be fired at the persons who are
leading on the ignorant and deluded mob."</p><p>"如果那樣不能驅散群眾，如果他們向士兵投擲石頭或以其他方式抵抗，第二輪射擊——我見不到其他的解決方法——第二輪射擊，我說，必須對著那些引導著無知和被矇蔽的暴民的人開火。"</p>
<p>"Ah!"</p><p>"啊!"</p>
<p>The General hesitated, and Roma, whose breathing came quick and short,
gave him a look of tenderness and gratitude.</p><p>將軍猶豫不決，而羅馬的呼吸急促短小，她給了他一個滿含柔情和感激的眼神。</p>
<p>"You agree, General Morra?"</p><p>"您同意，摩拉將軍嗎？"</p>
<p>"I'm afraid I see no alternative. But if the blood of their leader only
infuriates the people, is the third volley...."</p><p>"我恐怕看不到其他的選擇。但是如果他們領導者的血只會激怒人民，那第三次的齊射呢...."</p>
<p>"That," said the Baron, "is a contingency too terrible to contemplate.
My prediction would be that when their leader falls, the poor, misguided
people will fly. But in all human enterprises the last word has to be
left to destiny. Let us leave it to destiny in the present instance.
Adieu, dear General! Be good enough to tell my secretary to send in the
Chief of Police."</p><p>"那是一種太可怕的情況，以至於不敢去想象。"男爵說道: "我預測當他們的領導者倒下時，那些可憐而被誤導的人們將會逃跑。但是，在所有的人類事業中，最後一句話必須留給命運決定。讓我們在此情況下把它交給命運。再見了，親愛的將軍！請告訴我的秘書去叫警察局長進來。"</p>
<p>The Minister of War left the room, and once more Roma rose to go.</p><p>戰爭部長離開了房間，羅馬再次起身要走。</p>
<p>"You cannot possibly imagine that a conversation like this...." she
began, but the Baron only interrupted her again.</p><p>"您可能無法想象這樣的對話...." 她開始，但男爵只是又打斷了她。</p>
<p>"Don't go yet. I shall be finished presently. Angelelli cannot keep me
more than a moment. Ah, here is the Commendatore."</p><p>"不要走。我很快就會完成。Angelelli不可能讓我停留太久。啊，這裡有Commendatore。"</p>
<p>The Chief of Police came bowing and bobbing at every step, with the
extravagant politeness which differentiates the vulgar man from the
well-bred.</p><p>"警察局長每走一步都在鞠躬和顛簸，這種過分的禮貌區分了俗人和有教養的人。"</p>
<p>"About this meeting at the Coliseum, Commendatore—has any authorisation
been asked for it?"<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00240" title="187"><a id="Page_187" title="187"></a></span></p><p>"關於在競技場的這次會議，Commendatore — 有人詢問過它的授權了嗎?"</p>
<p>"None whatever, your Excellency."</p><p>"閣下，完全沒有。"</p>
<p>"Then we may properly regard it as seditious?"</p><p>"那我們可以適當地視之為煽動性的嗎？"</p>
<p>"Quite properly, your Excellency."</p><p>"非常對，閣下。"</p>
<p>"Listen! You will put yourself into communication with the Minister of
War immediately. He will place fifty thousand men at the disposition of
your Prefect. Choose your delegates carefully. Instruct them well. At
the first overt act of resistance, let them give the word to fire. After
that, leave everything to the military."</p><p>"聽著！你必須立即與戰爭部長建立聯絡。他將會把五萬名士兵交給你的地區長官。小心選擇你的代表。好好教育他們。一旦有明顯的抵抗行為，讓他們發出開火的命令。之後，把所有事情都交給軍方處理。"</p>
<p>"Quite so, your Excellency."</p><p>"的確如此，閣下。"</p>
<p>"Be careful to keep yourself in touch with me until midnight to-morrow.
It may be necessary to declare a state of siege, and in that event the
royal decree will have to be obtained without delay. Prepare your own
staff for a general order. Ask for the use of the cannon of St. Angelo
as a signal, and let it be understood that if the gun is fired to-morrow
night, every gate of the city is to be closed, every outward train is to
be stopped, and every telegraph office is to be put under control. You
understand me?"</p><p>"請確保自己與我保持聯絡，一直到明天午夜。可能需要宣佈進入緊急狀態，在那種情況下，必須無延遲地獲得皇家法令。準備你自己的人員接收一個普遍指令。請求使用聖安吉洛的砲作為訊號，並讓人們明白，如果明天晚上炮響，城市的每一個大門都要關閉，所有出城的火車都要停止，每個電報辦公室都要受到控制。瞭解嗎？"</p>
<p>"Perfectly, Excellency."</p><p>"完美無瑕，閣下。"</p>
<p>"After the signal has been given let no one leave the city, and let no
telegraphic message of any kind be despatched. In short, let Rome from
that hour onward be entirely under the control of the Government."</p><p>"在訊號給出之後，不讓任何人離開城市，也不讓任何型別的電報被傳送。簡言之，就讓羅馬從那個時候開始完全在政府的控制之下。"</p>
<p>"Entirely, your Excellency."</p><p>"完全是的，閣下。"</p>
<p>"The military have already received their orders. After the call of the
delegate of police, the first volley is to be fired over the heads of
the people, and the second at the ringleaders. But if any of these
should escape...."</p><p>"軍方已經接到了他們的命令。在警察代表的呼叫之後，第一槍要在人群的頭頂上開火，而第二槍則射向鼓吹者。但如果這些人中有任何人應逃脫...."</p>
<p>The Baron paused, and then repeated in a low tone with the utmost
deliberation:</p><p>男爵停下來，然後儘可能慎重地以低聲重複：</p>
<p>"I say, <i>if</i> any of these should escape, Commendatore...."</p><p>"我說，如果這些人中有人逃脫了，貴人...."</p>
<p>"They shall not escape, your Excellency."</p><p>"他們將無法逃脫，閣下。"</p>
<p>There was a moment of profound silence, in which Roma felt herself to be
suffocating, and could scarcely restrain the cry that was rising in her
throat.</p><p>那是一個深沉的寂靜時刻，羅馬感到自己快要窒息，幾乎無法抑制自己喉嚨中即將發出的尖叫。</p>
<p>"Let me go," she said, when the Chief of Police had backed and bowed
himself out; but again the Baron pretended to misunderstand her.</p><p>“讓我走，”她在警察局長後退並行了禮後說，但男爵再次假裝誤解了她的意思。</p>
<p>"Only one more visitor! I shall be finished in a few minutes," and then
Charles Minghelli was shown into the room.</p><p>"再來一個訪客！幾分鐘後我就會完成，"然後，查理斯·明格利走進了房間。</p>
<p>The man's watchful eyes blinked perceptibly as he came<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00241" title="188"><a id="Page_188" title="188"></a></span> face to face
with Roma, but he recovered himself in a moment, and began to brush with
his fingers the breast of his frockcoat.</p><p>那個男人警惕的眼睛在面對羅馬時明顯地眨了眨，但他立刻恢復了過來，並開始用手指掃著他燕尾服的胸部。</p>
<p>"Sit down, Minghelli. You may speak freely before Donna Roma. You owe
your position to her generous influence, you may remember, and she is
abreast of all our business. You know all about this meeting at the
Coliseum?"</p><p>"坐下，明赫利。你可以在多娜羅馬面前自由地說話。你可能還記得，你的位置是由於她的慷慨影響，她瞭解我們所有的業務。你知道在羅馬競技場的這次會議的所有內容嗎？"</p>
<p>Minghelli bent his head.</p><p>明赫利低下了他的頭。</p>
<p>"The delegates of police have received the strictest orders not to give
the word to the military until an overt act of resistance has been
committed. That is necessary as well for the safety of our poor deluded
people as for our own credit in the eyes of the world. But an act of
rebellion in such a case is a little thing, Mr. Minghelli."</p><p>"警方的代表已經接到了最嚴格的命令，除非有明顯的反抗行為發生，否則不要與軍方接觸。這對我們可憐的被誤導的人民的安全以及我們在世界眼中的信譽都是必要的。但在這種情況下，叛亂行為算不得什麼，明赫利先生。"</p>
<p>Again Minghelli bent his head.</p><p>`明赫利再次低下頭。`</p>
<p>"A blow, a shot, a shower of stones, and the peace is broken and the
delegate is justified."</p><p>"一擊，一槍，一陣石塊的砸向，和平被打破，代表者得到了辯護。"</p>
<p>A third time Minghelli bent his head.</p><p>"明赫利第三次低下了他的頭。"</p>
<p>"Unfortunately, in the sorrowful circumstances in which the city is
placed, an overt act of resistance is quite sure to be committed."</p><p>"不幸的是，在城市處於如此悲慘的環境下，明目張膽的反抗行為必定會發生。"</p>
<p>Minghelli flecked a speck of dust from his spotless cuff and said:</p><p>明契利從他無塵的袖口上撣去一點塵土，然後說：</p>
<p>"Quite sure, your Excellency."</p><p>"非常確定，閣下。"</p>
<p>There was another moment of profound silence, in which Roma felt her
heart beat violently.</p><p>那是另一個深沉無聲的時刻，羅馬感到自己的心跳劇烈。</p>
<p>"Adieu, Mr. Minghelli. Tell my secretary as you pass out that I wish to
dictate a letter."</p><p>"再見，明赫利先生。走出去的時候告訴我的秘書，我想要口述一封信。"</p>
<p>The letter was to the Minister of Foreign Affairs.</p><p>這封信是寫給外交部長的。</p>
<p>"Dear colleague," dictated the Baron, "I entirely approve of the
proposal you have made to the Governments of Europe and America to
establish a basis on which anarchists should be suppressed by means of
an international net, through which they can hardly escape. My
suggestion would be the universal application of the Belgian clause in
all existing extradition treaties, whereby persons guilty of regicide
may be dealt with as common murderers. In any case please say that the
Government of Italy intends to do its duty to the civilised world, and
will look to the Governments of other countries to allow it to follow up
and arrest the criminals who are attempting to reconstruct society by
burying it under ruins."<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00242" title="189"><a id="Page_189" title="189"></a></span></p><p>"親愛的同事，"男爵指示說，"我完全贊同您向歐美各國政府提出的建議，即透過一個國際網路來壓制無政府主義者，他們幾乎無法逃脫。我建議在所有現行的引渡條約中普遍應用比利時條款，只需將犯下弒君罪者視為普通的兇手即可。無論如何，請說義大利政府打算履行對文明世界的責任，並期望其他國家的政府允許我們追蹤並逮捕那些試圖透過將社會埋在廢墟下以重建社會的罪犯。"</p>
<p>Notwithstanding all her efforts to appear calm, Roma felt as if she must
go out into the streets and scream. Now she knew why she had been sent
for. It was in order that the Baron might talk to her in parables—in
order that he might show her by means of an object lesson, as palpable
as pitiless, what was the impediment which made her marriage with David
Rossi impossible.</p><p>儘管羅馬盡力保持鎮定，但她感覺自己必須走出街頭大叫。現在她知道她為什麼被召來。這是為了讓男爵能夠用寓言與她對話——讓他能夠透過一種直覺的物體課程，既明顯又無情，向她展示了什麼是阻礙她和大衛·羅西結婚的障礙。</p>
<p>The marriage could not be celebrated until after eleven days, but the
meeting at the Coliseum must take place to-morrow, and as surely as it
did so it must result in riot and David Rossi must be shot.</p><p>這場婚禮必須在十一天後才能舉行，但是明天就必須在競技場見面，而且只要會面一定會導致暴動，大衛·羅西一定會被槍殺。</p>
<p>The secretary gathered up his note-book and left the room, and then the
Baron turned to Roma with beaming eyes and lips expanding to a smile.</p><p>"秘書收起他的筆記本，離開了房間，然後男爵轉向 Roma，眼神煥發，嘴唇擴張成一個微笑。"</p>
<p>"Finished at last! A thousand apologies, my dear! Twelve o'clock
already! Let us go out and lunch somewhere."</p><p>"終於完成了！親愛的，我千萬次的道歉！已經十二點了！我們去外面找個地方吃午餐吧。"</p>
<p>"Let me go home," said Roma.</p><p>"讓我回家," 羅馬說。</p>
<p>She was trembling violently, and as she rose to her feet she swayed a
little.</p><p>她猛烈地震顫，當她站起來時，她稍微搖擺了一下。</p>
<p>"My dear child! you're not well. Take this glass of water."</p><p>"我的親愛的孩子！你不舒服。請喝這杯水。"</p>
<p>"It's nothing. Let me go home."</p><p>"這沒什麼。讓我回家。"</p>
<p>The Baron walked with her to the head of the staircase.</p><p>男爵與她一同走向樓梯頂部。</p>
<p>"I understand you perfectly," she said in a choking voice, "but there is
something you have not counted upon, and you are quite mistaken."</p><p>"我完全瞭解你的意思，"她聲音哽咽地說，"但你忽略了一些事情，而且你完全弄錯了。"</p>
<p>And making a great call on her resolution, she threw up her head and
walked firmly down the stairs.</p><p>她鼓起了巨大的勇氣，抬起頭堅定地走下了樓梯。</p>
<p>Immediately on reaching home she wrote to David Rossi:</p><p>`她一到家就立刻給大衛·羅西寫信：`</p>
<p style="padding-top:.5em;">"I <span class="smcap">must</span> see you to-night. Where can it be? To-night! Mind, to-night.
To-morrow will be too late.</p><p style="padding-top:.5em;">"我必須今晚見你。我們應該在哪裡見面？今晚！請注意，是今晚。明天就太遲了。"
</p>
<p style="padding-bottom:.5em;"><span class="smcap">Roma</span>."</p><p style="padding-bottom:.5em;">"羅馬."</p>
<p>Bruno delivered the note by hand, and brought back an answer:</p><p>"布魯諾親手遞交了筆記，並帶回了答案："</p>
<p style="padding-top:.5em;">"<span class="smcap">Dearest</span>,—Come to the office at nine o'clock. Sorry I cannot go to you.
It is impossible.</p><p style="padding-top:.5em;">"親愛的，請在九點鐘來辦公室。對不起，我不能去找你。這是不可能的。"</p>
<p style="text-align:right; margin-top:-1em;">D. R.</p><p style="text-align:right; margin-top:-1em;">"D. R."</p>
<p style="padding-bottom:.5em;">"P.S.—You have converted Bruno, and he would die for you. As for the
'little Roman boy,' he is in the seventh heaven over your presents, and
says he must go up to Trinità de' Monti to begin work at once."<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00243" title="190"><a id="Page_190" title="190"></a></span></p><p style="padding-bottom:.5em;">"附言——你已經讓布魯諾心服，他願意為你死。至於'那個小羅馬男孩'，他對你的禮物高興得如在七重天，並說他必須立即上特林塔塔迪蒙蒂去開始工作。"</p>
<h3 id="pgepubid00244">IV</h3>
<p>The office of the <i>Sunrise</i> at nine o'clock that night tingled with
excitement. A supplement had already gone to press, and the machines in
the basement were working rapidly. In the business office on the first
floor people were constantly coming and going, and the footsteps on the
stairs of the composing-room sounded through the walls like the
irregular beat of a hammer.</p><p>那晚九點，太陽報的辦公室充滿了興奮。增刊已經開始印刷，地下室的機器正在快速運作。一樓的商務辦公室人來人往，排版室的樓梯上的腳步聲穿過牆壁，像錘子的不規則敲擊聲。</p>
<p>The door of the editor's room was frequently swinging open, as reporters
with reports, messengers with telegrams, and boys with proofs came in
and laid them on the desk at which the sub-editor sat at work.</p><p>編輯室的門經常搖晃著開啟，記者帶著報告，信差帶著電報，孩子們帶著校對稿走進來，把它們放在副編輯正在工作的桌子上。</p>
<p>David Rossi stood by his desk at the farther end of the room. This was
the last night of his editorship of the <i>Sunrise</i>, and by various silent
artifices the staff were showing their sympathy with the man who had
made the paper and was forced to leave it.</p><p>"戴維·羅西站在房間的遠端，臨近他的書桌。這是他作為《日出》主編的最後一夜，而群眾員工們以各種默默的手法向這個創立報紙並被迫離開的男人表示同情。"</p>
<p>The excitement within the office of the <i>Sunrise</i> corresponded to the
commotion outside. The city was in a ferment, and from time to time
unknown persons, the spontaneous reporters of tumultuous days, were
brought in from the outer office to give the editor the latest news of
the night. Another trainful of people had arrived from Milan! Still
another from Bologna and Carrara! The storm was growing! Soon would be
heard the crash of war! Their faces were eager and their tone was one of
triumph. They pitched their voices high, so as to be heard above the
reverberation of the machines, whose deep thud in the rooms below made
the walls vibrate like the side of a ship at sea.</p><p>"在日出報社辦公室裡的興奮與外面的騷動相對應。城市處於煉獄之中，且不時有陌生人 - 紛亂日子的自發記者從外面的辦公室被帶進來，給編輯最新的夜晚新聞。又有一列來自米蘭的人群的火車到達了! 還有更多的來自博洛尼亞和卡拉拉的！風暴正在加劇！戰爭的撞擊聲很快就會聽到！他們的臉龐洋溢著渴望，語氣充滿勝利感。他們把自己的聲音提高，以便在機器的迴音上方被聽到，這些機器在下面的房間裡的深沉鉚音使牆壁如同在海上的船側一樣震動。"</p>
<p>David Rossi did not catch the contagion of their joy. At every fresh
announcement his face clouded. The unofficial head of the surging and
straining democracy, which was filling itself hourly with hopes and
dreams, was unhappy and perplexed. He was trying to write his last
message to his people, and he could not get it clear because his own
mind was confused.</p><p>大衛·羅西並未被他們的歡樂所感染。每次新的公告，他的臉色都會變得陰沉。這位非官方的頭目，領導著每小時都在充滿希望和夢想的民眾，感到不安和困擾。他正試圖寫給他的人民最後的訊息，但因為他自己的心情困惑，所以無法寫清楚。</p>
<p>"<i>Romans</i>," he wrote first, "<i>your rulers are preparing to resist your
right of meeting, and you will have nothing to oppose to the muskets and
bayonets of their soldiers but the bare breasts of a brave but peaceful
people. No matter. Fifty, a hundred, five hundred of you killed at the
first volley,<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00245" title="191"><a id="Page_191" title="191"></a></span> and the day is won! The reactionary Government of
Italy—all the reactionary Governments of Europe—will be borne down lay
the righteous indignation of the world."</i></p><p>"羅馬人，"他首先寫道，"你們的統治者正準備阻止你們集會的權利，你們將無法以除了勇敢但平和的人民的赤裸上身來對抗他們的士兵的槍砲和刺刀。無所謂。第一槍殺了你們五十人，一百人，五百人，那天就贏了！義大利的反動政府 —所有歐洲的反動政府 —將被世界公義的憤怒裹挾而下。"</p>
<p>It would not do! He had no right to lead the people to certain
slaughter, and he tore up his manifesto and began again.</p><p>這樣不行！他無權帶領人們走向必定的屠殺，他將宣言撕毀，然後重新開始。</p>
<p>"<i>Romans</i>," he wrote the second time, "<i>when reforms cannot be effected
without the spilling of blood, the time for them has not yet come, and
it is the duty of a brave and peaceful people to wait for the silent
operation of natural law and the mighty help of moral forces. Therefore
at the eleventh hour I call upon you, in the names of your wives and
children....</i>"</p><p>"羅馬人，"他第二次寫道，"當改革無法在不流血的情況下進行時，改革的時機還未到來，勇敢而和平的人民的責任是等待自然法則的無聲操作和道德力量的強大幫助。因此，在最後的時刻，我以你們的妻子和孩子的名義呼籲你們...."</p>
<p>It was impossible! The people would think he was afraid, and the
opportune moment would be lost.</p><p>這是不可能的！人們會以為他害怕，而機會就會失去。</p>
<p>One man in the office of the <i>Sunrise</i> was entirely outside the circle
of its electric currents. This was the former day-editor, who had been
appointed by the proprietors to take Rossi's place, and was now walking
about with a silk hat on his head, taking note of everything and
exercising a premature and gratuitous supervision.</p><p>在Sunrise辦公室中的一個人完全脫離了其電流的範疇。 這個人就是前日編輯，他已被業主任命接替Rossi的位置，現在正戴著一頂絲帽子四處走動，對所有事物都保持警覺，行使放射性和多餘的監督權。</p>
<p>David Rossi was tearing up the second of his manifestoes when this
person came to say that a lady in the outer office was asking to see
him.</p><p>當這個人來說有位在外辦公室的女士想見他時，大衛·羅西正在撕毀他的第二份宣言。</p>
<p>"Show her into the private waiting-room," said Rossi.</p><p>"讓她進私人候診室," 羅西說。</p>
<p>"But may I suggest," said the man, "that considering who the lady is, it
would perhaps be better to see her elsewhere?"</p><p>"但是我可以建議，"那個男人說，"考慮到那位女士是誰，也許在別的地方見她會更好？"</p>
<p>"Show her into the private room, sir," said Rossi, and the man shrugged
his shoulders and disappeared.</p><p>"請把她帶進私人房間，先生，"羅西說，那個男人聳了聳肩，然後消失了。</p>
<p>As David Rossi opened the door of a small room at his right hand,
something rustled lightly in the corridor outside, and a moment
afterwards Roma glided into his arms. She was pale and nervous, and
after a moment she began to cry.</p><p>當大衛·羅西開啟他右手邊一個小房間的門時，
外面的走廊裡輕輕地響起了窸窸窣窣的聲音，一會兒，
羅瑪就滑入他的懷抱。她面色蒼白，神經緊張，
過了一會兒，她開始哭泣。</p>
<p>"Dear one," said Rossi, pressing her head against his breast, "what has
happened? Tell me! Something has frightened you. You look anxious."</p><p>"親愛的，"羅西說，把她的頭壓在他的胸口，"發生了什麼事？告訴我！你被什麼嚇到了。你看起來很擔憂。"</p>
<p>"No wonder," she said, and then she told him of her summons to the
Palazzo Braschi, and of the business she saw done there.</p><p>"難怪,"她說，然後她告訴他關於她被召喚到布拉斯奇宮，以及她在那裡見到的事情。</p>
<p>There was to be a riot at the meeting at the Coliseum, because, if need
be, the Government itself would provoke<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00246" title="192"><a id="Page_192" title="192"></a></span> violence. The object was to
kill <i>him</i>, not the people, and if he stayed in Rome until to-morrow
night there would be no possibility of escape.</p><p>將在大競技場的會議上爆發騷亂，因為必要時，政府本身會挑起暴力。目標是要殺死他，而不是人民，如果他留在羅馬到明天晚上，就沒有逃脫的可能性。</p>
<p>"You must fly," she said. "You are the victim marked out by all these
preparations—you, you, nobody but you."</p><p>"你必須離開,"她說。"你是所有這些準備工作所指定的受害者——你，只有你，而且只有你。"</p>
<p>"It is the best news I've heard for days," he said. "If I am the only
one who runs a risk...."</p><p>"這是我這幾天來聽到的最好消息，"他說。"如果只有我一個人冒著風險....."</p>
<p>"Risk! My dearest, don't you understand? Your life is aimed at, and you
must fly before it is quite impossible."</p><p>"風險！我最愛的，你不明白嗎？你的生命成了目標，你必須在完全無法逃避之前逃走。"</p>
<p>"It is already impossible," he answered.</p><p>"這已經是不可能的，"他回答。</p>
<p>He drew off one of her white gloves and kissed her finger-tips. "My dear
one," he said, "if there were nothing else to think of, do you suppose I
could go away and leave you behind me? That is just what somebody
expected me to do when he permitted you to witness his preparations. But
he was mistaken. I cannot and I will not leave you."</p><p>他脫掉她的一隻白色手套並吻了她的指尖。他說：“親愛的，就算沒有其他事情要考慮，你覺得我會離開你獨自一人嗎? 這正是某個人以為我會做的事情，當他讓你目睹他的準備工作的時候。但他錯了。我不能也不會離開你。”</p>
<p>Her pale face was suddenly overspread by a burning blush, and she threw
both arms about his neck.</p><p>她的蒼白臉龐突然被潮熱的紅暈所覆蓋，並把她的兩臂環繞在他的頸脖上。</p>
<p>"Very well," she said, "I will go with you."</p><p>"好的，" 她說，"我將與你一起去。"</p>
<p>"Darling!" he cried, and he clasped her to his breast again. "But no!
That is impossible also. Our marriage cannot take place for ten days."</p><p>"親愛的!"他叫道，然後再次將她緊緊擁入懷中。"但不！這也是不可能的。我們的婚禮要十天後才能舉行。"</p>
<p>"No matter! I'll go without it."</p><p>"沒關係！我不用它就走。"</p>
<p>"My dear child, you don't know what you are saying. You are too good,
too pure...."</p><p>"親愛的孩子，你不知道你在說什麼。你太善良了，太純真了...."</p>
<p>"Hush! Our marriage is nothing to anybody but ourselves, and if we
choose to go without it...."</p><p>"噓！我們的婚姻對任何人來說都沒有什麼，如果我們選擇不需要它...."</p>
<p>"My dear girl!"</p><p>"我的親愛的女孩！"</p>
<p>"I can't hear you," she said. Loosening her hands from his neck, she had
covered her ears.</p><p>"我聽不到你在說什麼，"她說。她從他的脖子上鬆開手，然後用手覆蓋住耳朵。</p>
<p>"Dearest, I know what you are thinking of, but it must not be."</p><p>"親愛的，我知道你在想什麼，但那是不可能的。"</p>
<p>"I can't hear a word you're saying," she said, beating her hands over
her ears. "I'm ready to go now, this very minute—and if you don't take
me, it is because you love other things better than you love me."</p><p>"我聽不到你說的任何話，"她說，手敲打著自己的耳朵。 "我現在馬上就準備好走了，如果你不帶我走，那就是因為你比愛我更愛其他東西。”</p>
<p>"My darling, don't tempt me. If you only knew what it costs me ... but I
would rather die...."</p><p>"親愛的，不要誘惑我。如果你只知道這對我來說意味著什麼...但我寧願死...."</p>
<p>"I don't want you to die. That's just it! I want you to live, and I am
willing to risk everything—everything...."</p><p>"我不希望你死去。就是這樣！我希望你活下去，我願意冒著一切風險-所有的風險...."</p>
<p>Her warm and lovely form was quivering in his arms, and his heart was
labouring wildly.</p><p>她那溫暖而可愛的身軀在他的臂彎中顫抖，他的心跳得如此激烈。</p>
<p>"Dearest," he whispered over her head, "you are so<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00247" title="193"><a id="Page_193" title="193"></a></span> good, so pure, so
noble, that you don't know how evil tongues can wag at a woman because
she is brave and true. But I must remember my mother—and if your poor
father is to rest in his grave...."</p><p>"親愛的，"他在她的頭頂輕聲細語，"你如此善良，如此純潔，如此高尚，你不知道惡舌如何對一個勇敢和忠誠的女人興風作浪。但是我必須記住我的母親-如果你可憐的父親要安息在他的墳墓中...."</p>
<p>His voice broke and he stopped.</p><p>他的聲音突然斷掉，然後他停下來。</p>
<p>"See how much I love you," he whispered again, "when I would rather lose
you than see you lower yourself in your own esteem.... And then think of
my people! my poor people who trust me and look up to me so much more
than I deserve. I called them and they have come. They are here now,
tens of thousands of them. And they will be here to-morrow wherever I
may be. Shall I desert them in their hour of need, thinking of my own
safety, my own happiness? No! You cannot wish it! You do not wish it! I
know you too well!"</p><p>「看看我有多愛你，」他再次低聲說，「當我寧願失去你，也不想看到你在自己的尊重中降低自己的身價…然後想想我的人民！我可憐的人民，他們對我的信任和仰望遠遠超過我所值得的。我召喚他們，他們已經來了。他們現在都在這裡，數以萬計的人。而且無論我明天可能在哪裡，他們都將在這裡。我在他們最需要的時候離棄他們，只考慮自己的安全，自己的快樂嗎？ 不！ 你不能期望這樣！ 你不希望這樣！ 我對你瞭解太深！」</p>
<p>She lifted her head from his breast. "You are right," she said. "You
must stay."</p><p>她從他的胸口抬起了頭。“你是對的，”她說。“你必須留下來。”</p>
<p>"My sweet girl!"</p><p>"我的甜心女兒!"</p>
<p>"Can you ever forgive me for being frightened at the first note of
danger and telling you to fly?"</p><p>"你能不能原諒我在第一時間遇到危險就嚇壞了，告訴你要逃跑？"</p>
<p>"I will always love you for it."</p><p>"我將永遠因此愛你。"</p>
<p>"And you will never think the worse of me for offering to go with you?"</p><p>"你會不會因為我主動提議和你一起去而看不起我？"</p>
<p>"I will love you for that too."</p><p>"我也會因此愛你。"</p>
<p>"I must be brave," she said, drawing herself up proudly, though her lips
were trembling, her voice was breaking, and her eyes were wet. "Whether
you are right or wrong in what you are doing it is not for me to decide,
but if your heart tells you to do it you <i>must</i> do it, and I must be
your soldier, ready and waiting for my captain's call."</p><p>"我必須要堅強，"她說，身體驕傲地挺直，雖然她的嘴唇在顫抖，聲音在顫抖，眼眶裡也濕潤著淚水。"不論你所做的是否正確，並非我能決定的事情，但如果你的心告訴你要這樣做，那你就必須要這樣做，而我必須要成為你的士兵，隨時等待我的指揮官的召喚。"</p>
<p>"My brave girl!"</p><p>"我的勇敢的女孩！"</p>
<p>"It is not for nothing that I am my father's daughter. <i>He</i> risked
everything and so will I, and if they come to me to-morrow night and say
that ... that you ... that you are...."</p><p>"我並非無緣無故成為父親的女兒。他甘冒一切風險，我也將如此。若他們明晚來告訴我說...你...你是...."</p>
<p>The proud face had fallen on his breast again. But after a moment it was
raised afresh, and then it was shining all over.</p><p>這張驕傲的臉再次低垂在他的胸前。但過了片刻，他抬起了頭，那時，他的臉整個都在閃耀。</p>
<p>"That's right! How beautiful your face is when it smiles, Roma! Roma, do
you know what I'm going to do when this is all over? I'm going to spend
my life in making you smile all the time."</p><p>"對了！當你笑起來時，你的臉真美，羅馬！羅馬，你知道當一切結束後我將會做什麼嗎？我將會將我的一生都花在讓你始終保持微笑上。"</p>
<p>She gave him a sudden kiss, and then broke out of his arms.<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00248" title="194"><a id="Page_194" title="194"></a></span></p><p>她突然親吻了他，然後掙脫了他的擁抱。</p>
<p>"I must be going. I've stayed too long. I may not see you before the
meeting, but I won't say 'good-bye.' I've thought of something, and now
I know what I'm going to do."</p><p>"我必須要走了。我待得太久了。在會議之前，我可能看不到你，但我不會說'再見'。我想到了些什麼，現在我知道我要做什麼。"</p>
<p>"What is it?"</p><p>"這是什麼？"</p>
<p>"Don't ask me."</p><p>"不要問我。"</p>
<p>She opened the door.</p><p>她打開了門。</p>
<p>"Come to me to-morrow night—I shall expect you," she whispered, and
waving her glove to him over her head she disappeared from the room.</p><p>"明天晚上來找我——我會等你，"她咕嚕著，然後揮舞著手套高舉過頭以示告別，就消失在房間裡了。</p>
<p>He stood a moment where she had left him, trying to think what she
intended to do, and then he returned to his desk in the outer office.
His successor was there, looking sour and stubborn.</p><p>他站在她離開他的地方，試圖想出她打算做什麼，然後他回到外面辦公室的桌子。他的繼任者在那裡，看起來酸溜溜和固執。</p>
<p>"Mr. Rossi," he said, "this afternoon I was told at the Press Club that
the authorities were watching for a plausible excuse for suppressing the
paper; and considering the relations of this lady to the Minister of the
Interior, and the danger of spies...."</p><p>"羅西先生,"他說,"今天下午在新聞俱樂部裡，我被告知當局正在尋找一個合理的藉口來壓制報紙；考慮到這位女士與內政部長的關係，以及間諜的危險...."</p>
<p>"Listen to this carefully, sir," interrupted Rossi. "When you come into
possession of the chair I occupy, you may do as you think well, but
to-night it is mine, and I shall conduct the paper as I please."</p><p>"仔細聽我說，先生，"Rossi插嘴說，"當你擁有我現在坐的這把椅子的時候，你可以隨意行事，但今晚它是我的，我將按我想要的方式來運營這份報紙。"</p>
<p>"Still, you will allow me to say...."</p><p>"不過，你還是會讓我說...."</p>
<p>"Not one word."</p><p>"一字不提。"</p>
<p>"Permit me to protest...."</p><p>"請允許我反對...."</p>
<p>"Leave the room immediately."</p><p>"請立即離開房間。"</p>
<p>When the man was gone, David Rossi wrote a third and last version of his
manifesto:</p><p>當那個男人走後，大衛·羅西寫下他的宣言的第三個也是最後的版本：</p>
<p>"<i>Romans.—Have no fear. Do not allow yourselves to be terrified by the
military preparations of your Government. Believe a man who has never
deceived you—the soldiers will not fire upon the people! Violate no
law. Assail no enemy. Respect property. Above all, respect life. Do not
allow yourself to be pushed into the doctrine of physical force. If any
man tries to provoke violence, think him an agent of your enemies and
pay no heed. Be brave, be strong, be patient, and to-morrow night you
will send up such a cry as will ring throughout the world. Romans,
remember your fathers and be great.</i>"</p><p>"羅馬人。—請勿懼怕。不要讓你們被政府的軍事準備所恐嚇。相信一個從未欺騙過你們的人—士兵不會向人民開火！不要違反任何法律。不要攻擊任何敵人。尊重財產。最重要的是，尊重生命。不要讓自己陷入使用武力的信條。如果有人嘗試挑起暴力，認為他是你們的敵人的代理人，並不要理會。勇敢、堅強、耐心，明晚你們將發出的呼喊將會響徹全世界。羅馬人，記住你們的祖先，做偉大的人。"</p>
<p>Rossi was handing his manuscript to the sub-editor, that it might be
sent upstairs, when all at once the air seemed to become empty and the
world to stand still. The machine in<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00249" title="195"><a id="Page_195" title="195"></a></span> the basement had ceased to work.
There was a momentary pause, such as comes on a steamship at sea when
the engines are suddenly stopped, and then a sound of frightened voices
and the noise of hurrying feet. Somebody ran along the corridor outside
and rapped sharply at the door.</p><p>羅西正在將他的手稿遞給副編輯，以便將其送上樓，而突然，空氣似乎變得空無一物，世界似乎停滯不前。地下室的機器停止了運作。就像海上的蒸汽船突然停止引擎時，突然出現了一段短暫的暫停，然後就是驚恐的聲音和快步跑動的聲音。有人沿著外面的走廊跑過，然後在門外急劇地敲了一下。</p>
<p>At the next moment the door opened and four men entered the room. One of
them was an inspector, another was a delegate, and the others were
policemen in plain clothes.</p><p>下一刻，門打開了，四個男人走進了房間。他們中的一個是檢查員，另一個是代表，其餘的都是便衣警察。</p>
<p>"The journal is sequestered," said the inspector to David Rossi. And
turning to one of his men, he said, "Go up to the composing-room and
superintend the distribution of the type."</p><p>"該期刊已被封存，"檢查員對大衛·羅西說。然後他轉向他的一個人，說："去排字室並監督分發字型。"</p>
<p>"Allow no one to leave the building," said the delegate to the other
policeman.</p><p>"不要讓任何人離開這棟大樓," 這位代表對另一位警察說。</p>
<p>"Gentlemen," said the inspector, "we are charged to make a perquisition,
and must ask you for the keys of your desks."</p><p>"先生們," 檢查員說, "我們被賦予了進行搜索的責任，必須請求你們的書桌鑰匙。"</p>
<p>"What is this?" said the delegate, taking the manifesto out of Rossi's
fingers, and proceeding to read it.</p><p>"這是什麼？"代表接過羅西手中的宣言，開始閱讀。</p>
<p>At that moment the editor-elect came rushing into the room with a face
like the rising sun.</p><p>在那一刻，當選編輯如日出般的臉色衝進了房間。</p>
<p>"I demand to see a list of the things sequestered," he cried.</p><p>"我要求看到被扣押物品的清單，"他大聲疾呼。</p>
<p>"You shall do so at the police-office," said the inspector.</p><p>"你應該在警察局裡這麼做," 檢察官說。</p>
<p>"Does that mean that we are all arrested?"</p><p>"那是否意味著我們都被逮捕了？"</p>
<p>"Not all. The Honourable Rossi, being a Deputy, is at liberty to leave."</p><p>"並非所有人。榮譽的羅西先生作為議員，有自由離開。"</p>
<p>"Thought as much," said the new editor, with a contemptuous snort. And
turning to Rossi, and showing his teeth in a bitter smile, he said:
"What did I say would happen? Has it followed quickly enough to satisfy
you?"</p><p>"正如我所想，"新編輯者帶著蔑視的噴鼻音說。他轉向羅西，露出苦澀的笑容，說："我說會發生什麼事？這件事發生得夠快，能讓你滿意嗎？"</p>
<p>The inspector and the delegate opened the editors' desks and were
rummaging among their papers when David Rossi put on his hat and went
home.</p><p>檢查員和代表檢查了編輯的桌子，當他們在檔案中翻找時，大衛·羅西戴上帽子回家了。</p>
<p>At the door of the lodge the old Garibaldian was waiting in obvious
excitement.</p><p>在小屋的門口，老加里波第志士顯然在焦急地等待。</p>
<p>"Old John has been here, sir," he said. "Something to tell you. Wouldn't
tell me. But Bruno got it out of him at last. Must be something serious,
for the big booby has been drinking ever since. Hear him in the café,
sir. I'll send him up."</p><p>"老約翰來過這裡，先生，"他說。"有事要告訴你。他不肯告訴我。但布魯諾最後問出他的事來。結果一定是很嚴重，因為那個大傻瓜自從那時開始就一直在喝酒。你在咖啡廳聽到他了吧，先生。我會叫他上來的。"</p>
<p>Half-an-hour afterwards Bruno staggered into Rossi's room. He had a
tearful look in his drink-deadened eyes, and<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00250" title="196"><a id="Page_196" title="196"></a></span> was clearly struggling
with a desire to put his arms about Rossi's neck and weep over him.</p><p>半小時之後，布魯諾搖搖晃晃地闖進了羅西的房間。他那醉眼朦朧的目光中帶著淚意，顯然正努力抑制著想要抱著羅西的脖子哭泣的衝動。</p>
<p>"D'ye know wha'?" he mumbled in a maudlin voice. "Ole Vampire is a
villain! Ole John—'member ole John?—well, ole John heard his grandson,
the d'ective, say that if you go to the Coliseum to-morrow night...."</p><p>"你知道嗎？”他帶著醉意的聲音嘟囔著。“老吸血鬼是個反派！老約翰——記得老約翰嗎？——嗯，老約翰聽到他的孫子，那個偵探，說如果你明晚去大競技場...."</p>
<p>"I know all about it, Bruno. You may go to bed."</p><p>"我全都知道了，布魯諾。你可以去睡覺了。"</p>
<p>"Stop a minute, sir," said Bruno, with a melancholy smile. "You don't
unnerstand. They're going t' shoot you. See? Ole John—'member ole John?
Well, ole John...."</p><p>"請稍等一下，先生，"布魯諾帶著憂鬱的笑容說。 "你不明白。他們要射殺你。明白了嗎？老約翰 - 還記得老約翰嗎？嗯，老約翰...."</p>
<p>"I know, Bruno. But I'm going nevertheless."</p><p>"我知道，Bruno。但我還是要去。"</p>
<p>Bruno fought with the vapour in his brain, and said: "You don' mean t'
say you inten' t' let yourself be a target...."</p><p>布魯諾努力搏鬥著腦中的迷霧，說道: "你不是真的要讓自己成為一個目標……"</p>
<p>"That's what I do mean, Bruno."</p><p>"那就是我想說的，布魯諾。"</p>
<p>Bruno burst into a loud laugh. "Well, I'll be ... wha' the devil.... But
you sha'n't go. I'll ... I'll see you damned first!"</p><p>布魯諾爆出一陣響亮的笑聲。"哦，我會... 什麼鬼.... 但你不應該走。我會…我寧願看你詛咒才會讓你走！"</p>
<p>"You're drunk, Bruno. Go and put yourself to bed."</p><p>"你醉了，布魯諾。去睡覺吧。"</p>
<p>The drink-deadened eyes flashed, and to grief succeeded rage. "Pu' mysel
t' bed! D'ye know wha' I'd like t' do t' you for t' nex' twenty-four
hours? I'd jus' like—yes, by Bacchus—I'd jus' like to punch you in t'
belly and put <i>you</i> t' bed."</p><p>"那雙酒醉的雙眼閃爍著，悲傷之後是憤怒。" 給我自己上床！你知道我接下來二十四小時想對你做什麼嗎？我只是想——是的，我發巴克赫斯誓——僅僅是想要打你的肚子並且讓你上床。"</p>
<p>And straightening himself up with drunken dignity, Bruno stalked out of
the room.</p><p>"而布魯諾以醉酒後的尊嚴挺身而出，離開了房間。"</p>
<hr class="minor"/>
<p>The Baron Bonelli in the Piazza Leone was rising from his late and
solitary dinner when Felice entered the shaded dining-room and handed
him a letter from Roma. It ran:</p><p>`正當巴隆·博內利在利昂廣場的別墅裡結束了他的晚餐，菲利克斯走進帶有濃厚暗系色調的餐廳，遞給他一封來自羅馬的信。信的內容是：`</p>
<p style="padding-top:.5em; padding-bottom:.5em">"This is to let you know that I intend to be present at the meeting in
the Coliseum to-morrow night. Therefore, if any shots are to be fired by
the soldiers at the crowd or their leader, you will know beforehand that
they must also be fired at me."</p><p style="padding-top:.5em; padding-bottom:.5em">"我想讓你知道，我打算出席明晚在羅馬鬥獸場的會議。因此，如果士兵們打算朝群眾或他們的領導者開槍，你需要提前知道，他們也必須對我開槍。"</p>
<p>As the Baron held the letter under the red shade of the lamp, the usual
immobility of his icy face gave way to a rapturous expression.</p><p>當男爵在紅色燈罩下拿著那封信時，他冰冷臉部通常的不動搖讓位給了一種陶醉的表情。</p>
<p>"The woman is magnificent! And worth fighting for to the bitter end."<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00251" title="197"><a id="Page_197" title="197"></a></span></p><p>"這個女人簡直太棒了！ 絕對值得我們戰鬥到底。"</p>
<p>Then, turning to Felice, he told the man to ring up the Commendatore
Angelelli and tell him to send for Minghelli without delay.</p><p>然後，他轉向費利斯，告訴那個男人打電話給安傑萊利司令，讓他立即派人去找明格利。</p>
<h3 id="pgepubid00252">V</h3>
<p>Next day began with heavy clouds lying low over the city, a cold wind
coming down from the mountains, and the rumbling of distant thunder.
Nevertheless the people who had come to Rome for the demonstration at
the Coliseum seemed to be in the streets the whole day long. From early
morning they gathered in the Piazza Navona, inquired for David Rossi,
stood by the fountains, and looked up at his windows.</p><p>`第二天，濃厚的雲層籠罩著城市，冷風從山上吹下來，遠處的雷聲隆隆。然而，來羅馬參加大競技場示威的人們似乎整天都在街上。從早上開始，他們就聚集在納沃納廣場，問候大衛·羅西，站在噴泉旁，朝他的窗戶望去。`</p>
<p>As the day wore on the crowds increased.</p><p>隨著一天的過去，人群越來越多。</p>
<p>All the public squares seemed to be full of motley, ill-clad,
ill-nourished, but formidable multitudes. Towards evening the tradesmen
began to shut up their shops, and a regiment of cavalry paraded the
principal streets with a band that played the royal march.</p><p>所有的公共廣場似乎都充滿了五花八門，衣衫襤褸，營養不良，但形勢嚴峻的大眾。傍晚時分，商人們開始關閉他們的商店，一支騎兵團在主要街道上巡遊，樂隊演奏著皇家進行曲。</p>
<p>Meantime, the leader, to whom thousands were looking up, was miserable
and alone. He had cried "Peace," but the perils of protest were so many
and so near. A blow, a push, a quarrel at a street corner, and God knows
what might happen!</p><p>與此同時，那位領導者，令成千上萬的人望向，卻感到無比孤寂和痛苦。他曾高呼“和平”，但抗議的危險無處不在、近在咫尺。一次打擊、一次推擊、一場街頭角落的爭吵，神知道會發生什麼！</p>
<p>Elena came with his coffee. The timid creature kept looking at him out
of her liquid eyes as if struggling with a desire to speak, but when she
did so it was only on indifferent subjects.</p><p>`艾琳娜拿著他的咖啡過來。這個膽小的創造物以她深情的眼神一直看著他，好像在努力尋找說話的勇氣，但她真正開口說的卻只是些無關緊要的話題。`</p>
<p>Bruno had got up with a headache and gone off to work. Little Joseph was
very trying this morning, and she had threatened to whip him.</p><p>布魯諾今天早上醒來頭痛，然後去工作了。小約瑟夫今天早上特別頑皮，她甚至威脅要打他。</p>
<p>Her father had been upstairs to say that countless people were asking
for the Deputy, and he wished to know if anybody was to come up.</p><p>她的父親已經上樓來說，無數的人都在尋找副議長，他想知道是否有人要上來。</p>
<p>"Tell him I wish to be quite alone to-day," said Rossi, and then the
soft voice ceased, and the timid creature went out with a guilty look.</p><p>"告訴他，我今天希望能完全獨處，"羅西說，然後溫柔的聲音停了下來，那個害羞的生物帶著愧疚的表情離開了。</p>
<p>Like a man who is going on a long and perilous journey, David Rossi
spent the morning in arranging his affairs. He looked over his letters
and destroyed most of them. The letters from Roma were hard to burn, but
he read each of them again, as if trying to stamp their words and
characters on<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00253" title="198"><a id="Page_198" title="198"></a></span> his brain, and with a deep sigh he committed them to the
flames.</p><p>像一個即將踏上漫長而危險旅程的人一樣，大衛·羅西將整個上午都用在整理他的事務上。 他審查了他的信，並摧毀了其中的大部分信件。 羅馬來的信很難燃燒，但他再次閱讀了每一封，好像要將它們的文字和字母印在腦海中，深深地嘆了一口氣，並將它們交給了火焰。</p>
<p>It was twelve o'clock by this time, and Francesca, in her red cotton
handkerchief, brought up his lunch. The good old thing looked at him
with a comical expression of pity on her wrinkled face, and he knew that
Bruno had told his story.</p><p>現在已經是十二點，穿著紅色棉布手帕的弗朗西斯卡帶上了他的午餐。這個好心的老人用她滿是皺紋的臉看著他，臉上帶著趣味性的憐憫表情，他知道布魯諾已經將他的故事告訴她了。</p>
<p>"Come now, my son! Put away your papers and get something on your
stomach. People eat even if they're going to the gallows, you know."</p><p>"來吧，我的兒子！收好你的文件並且吃點東西。你知道即使是赴刑場的人也會吃飯。"</p>
<p>After lunch Rossi called upstairs for Joseph, and the shock-headed
little cub was brought down, with his wet eyes twinkling and his petted
lip beginning to smile.</p><p>`午餐後，羅西呼喚樓上的約瑟夫，然後那頭發亂的小獅子被帶了下來，他的眼睛濕潤閃亮，寵壞的嘴唇開始露出微笑。`</p>
<p>"Joseph has been naughty, Uncle David," said Elena. "He is crying for
the clothes Donna Roma gave him, and he says he must go out because it
is his birthday."</p><p>"約瑟夫一直很調皮，大衛叔叔," Elena 說。"他在為 Donna Roma 給他的衣服而哭泣，他說他必須出去，因為今天是他的生日。"</p>
<p>"Does a man cry when he is seven?" said Uncle David.</p><p>"一個男孩在七歲時會哭嗎？"，大衛叔叔說。</p>
<p>Thereupon Joseph, keeping his eyes upon his mother, whispered something
in Uncle David's ear, and straightway the gorgeous garments were
produced.</p><p>於是，約瑟夫一邊看著他的母親，一邊在大衛叔叔的耳邊悄悄說了些什麼，隨後一件件華麗的服裝立刻出現了。</p>
<p>"Joseph will promise not to go out to-day; won't you, Joseph?"</p><p>"約瑟夫會答應今天不出門的，對吧，約瑟夫？"</p>
<p>And Joseph rolled his fists into his eyes and was understood to say
"Yes."</p><p>約瑟夫將他的拳頭壓在他的眼睛上，被理解為他說“是的。”</p>
<p>At four o'clock Bruno came home, looking grim and resolute.</p><p>下午四點，布魯諾回家了，看起來嚴肅而堅決。</p>
<p>"I was pretty drunk last night, sir," he said, "but if there's shooting
to be done this evening I'm going to be there."</p><p>"昨晚我喝得挺醉的，先生，"他說，"但如果今晚有射擊的話，我一定會在那裡。"</p>
<p>The time came for the two men to go, and everybody saw them to the door.</p><p>兩個男人該走的時候到了，大家都送他們到門口。</p>
<p>"Adieu!" said Rossi. "Thank you for all you've done for me, and may God
bless you! Take care of my little Roman boy. Kiss me, Joseph! Again! For
the last time! Adieu!"</p><p>"再見！"羅西說。"謝謝你為我做的一切，願上帝祝福你！照顧我的小羅馬男孩。親吻我，約瑟夫！再來一次！最後一次！再見！"</p>
<p>"Ah, God is a good old saint. He'll take care of you, my son," said the
old woman.</p><p>"啊，上帝是一位善良的老聖人。他會照顧你的，我兒子，"老婦人說。</p>
<p>"Adieu, Uncle David! Adieu, papa!" cried Joseph over the banisters, and
the brave little voice, with its manly falsetto, was the last the men
heard as they descended the stairs.</p><p>"再見，大衛叔叔！再見，爸爸！"小約瑟夫在樓梯欄杆上叫喊著，這種英勇的小聲音，及其男子氣概的假聲，是男人們在下樓時最後聽到的。</p>
<p>The Piazza del Popolo was densely crowded, and seemed to be twice as
large as usual. Bruno elbowed a way through for himself and Rossi until
they came to the obelisk in the centre of the great circle. On the steps
of the obelisk a company<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00254" title="199"><a id="Page_199" title="199"></a></span> of artillery was stationed with a piece of
cannon which commanded the three principal thoroughfares of the city,
the Corso, the Ripetta, and the Babunio, which branch off from that
centre like the ribs from the handle of a fan. Without taking notice of
the soldiers, the people ranged themselves in order and prepared for
their procession. At the ringing of Ave Maria the great crowd linked in
files and turned their faces towards the Corso.</p><p>波波洛廣場擠滿了人，似乎比平常大了兩倍。布魯諾為他和羅西開了一條路，直到他們來到中央的方尖碑。在方尖碑的臺階上佈置了一支炮兵，控制著城市的三條主要通道，即科索大道、裡佩塔和巴布尼奧大道，這些通道從那個中心分岔出來，就像扇柄的肋骨一樣。人們並未理會士兵，排好隊伍，準備進行他們的遊行。在阿維-瑪利亞鐘聲響起時，大群人連成一排，對著科索大道而行。</p>
<p>Bruno walked first, carrying from his stalwart breast a standard, on
which was inscribed, under the title of the "Republic of Man," the
words, "Give us this day our daily bread." Rossi had meant to walk
immediately behind Bruno, but he found himself encircled by a group of
his followers. No sovereign was ever surrounded by more watchful guards.</p><p>布魯諾走在前面，他堅強的胸膛上掛著一個旗幟，上面寫著 "人類共和國" 的標題，以及 "賜給我們每日所需的糧食" 的話語。羅西本想緊跟在布魯諾的身後，但他發現自己被一群追隨者圍繞著。沒有一位主權者曾被如此警惕的護衛包圍過。</p>
<p>By the spontaneous consent of the public, traffic in the street was
suspended, and crowds of the people of the city had turned out to look
on. The four tiers of the Pincian Hill were packed with spectators, and
every window and balcony in the Corso was filled with faces. All the
shops were shut, and many of them were barricaded within and without. A
regiment of infantry was ranged along the edge of the pavement, and the
people passed between two lines of rifles.</p><p>`由於公眾自發的同意，街道的交通暫時被中止，城市的人群紛紛出來圍觀。賓西安山的四層都被觀眾擠滿，科索街上的每個視窗和陽臺都被面孔填滿。所有的商店都關門，許多商店內外都設有路障。一個步兵團沿著人行道的邊緣排成一行，人們在兩排槍枝之間通過。`</p>
<p>As the procession went on it was constantly augmented, and the column,
which had been four abreast when it started from the Popolo, was eight
abreast before it reached the end of the Corso. There were no bands of
music, and there was no singing, but at intervals some one at the head
of the procession would begin to clap, and then the clapping of hands
would run down the street like the rattle of musketry.</p><p>當遊行隊伍進行時，人群不斷增多，從起點Popolo出發時，隊伍排成了四人行，到達Corso的終點時，變為八人行。沒有樂隊，也沒有人唱歌，但在隊伍行進的間隙，前方會有人開始拍手，然後掌聲就像槍聲一樣沿街轟鳴。</p>
<p>Going up the narrow streets beyond the Venezia, the people passed into
the Forum—out of the living city of the present into the dead city of
the past, with its desolation and its silence, its chaos of broken
columns and cornices, of corbels and capitals, of wells and
watercourses, lying in the waste where they had been left by the
earthquake which had passed over them, the earthquake of the ages—and
so on through the arch of Titus to the meeting-place in the Coliseum.</p><p>`當人們從威尼斯走上窄窄的街道進入論壇 ，他們就從現在的活躍城市進入了過去的死去城市——那裡是荒涼寂靜，碎石遍地:斷壁殘垣，凸斷的柱頭和樓簷，狹小的控制裝置和大理石護欄，還有井口和水道，都被遺灑在震懾人心的地震災區——那場已經過去的地震不再回來。他們通過提圖斯拱門，繼續走向在羅馬鬥獸場的會議之地。`</p>
<p>All this time David Rossi's restless eyes had passed nervously from side
to side. Coming down the Corso he had been dimly conscious of eyes
looking at him from windows and balconies. He was struggling to be calm
and firm, but he was in a furnace of dread, and beneath his breath he
was<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00255" title="200"><a id="Page_200" title="200"></a></span> praying from time to time that God would prevent accident and avert
bloodshed. He was also praying for strength of spirit and feeling like a
guilty coward. His face was deadly pale, the fire within seemed to
consume the grosser senses, and he walked along like a man in a dream.</p><p>這段時間，大衛·羅西的焦慮的眼神不停地從一邊轉向另一邊。他走過科索街，隱約意識到窗戶和陽臺上有眼睛在看他。他努力保持冷靜和堅定，但他如熔爐般的恐懼，他在呼吸之間時而祈求上帝阻止意外和避免流血。他還祈求精神力量，感覺自己像一個有罪的懦夫。他的臉色顯得十分蒼白，內心的火焰似乎消耗了他的感官，他就像走在夢中的人一樣前進。</p>
<h3 id="pgepubid00256">VI</h3>
<p>Half-an-hour before Ave Maria, Roma had put on an inconspicuous cloak, a
plain hat, and a dark veil, and walked down to the Coliseum. Soldiers
were stationed on all the high ground about the circus, and large
numbers of persons were already assembled inside. The people were poor
and ill-clad, and they smelt of garlic and uncleanness. "<i>His</i> people,
though," thought Roma, and so she conquered her repulsion.</p><p>在Ave Maria前半小時，羅馬穿上一件不顯眼的披風，一頂樸素的帽子，並掛上一個深色的面紗，然後走下去到競技場。士兵們駐守在馬戲團周圍的所有高地上，大量的人已經在內部聚集。這些人都是窮人，衣著破爛，他們身上散發著大蒜和不潔的味道。"他們是他的人民，"羅馬這樣想，所以她克服了自己的反感。</p>
<p>Three tiers encircle the walls of the Coliseum, like the galleries of a
great theatre, and the lowest of these was occupied by a regiment of
Carabineers. There was some banter and chaff at the expense of the
soldiers, but the people were serious for all that, and the excitement
beneath their jesting was deep and strong.</p><p>"如同大劇院的樓座，三層樓座環繞著大競技場的牆壁，這些位置的最下層被一支憲兵團佔據。人們對這些士兵進行了一些揶揄和嘲諷，但即使如此，人們的心情仍然非常嚴肅，儘管他們表面上在開玩笑，但他們內心的興奮感非常強烈及深沉。"</p>
<p>The low cloud which had hung over the city from early morning seemed to
lie like a roof over the topmost circle of the amphitheatre, and as
night came on the pit below grew dark and chill. Then torches were lit
and put in prominent places—long pitch sticks covered with rags or
brown paper. The people were patient and good-humoured, but to beguile
the tedium of waiting they sang songs. They were songs of labour
chiefly, but one man started the <i>Te Deum</i>, and the rest joined in with
one voice. It was like the noise the sea makes on a heavy day when it
breaks on a bank of sand.</p><p>從早晨開始，低垂的雲層就覆蓋著城市，似乎像是頂層圓形劇場的屋頂。隨著夜幕降臨，下面的深坑變得黑暗且寒冷。然後人們點燃火炬並將其放在顯眼的地方——那些長長的塗有松脂的棒子覆蓋著破布或棕色的紙張。人們都很有耐心，情緒也很好，但為了排解等待的無聊，他們開始唱歌。他們大多數唱的是勞工歌曲，但有一個人開始唱起了《Te Deum》，其他人群起附和。他們的聲音就像海洋在風高浪急的日子裡，破浪沖向沙灘所發出的聲音一般。</p>
<p>After a while there was a deep sound from outside. The procession was
approaching. It came on like a great tidal wave and flowed into the vast
place in the gathering darkness with the light of a hundred fresh
torches.</p><p>過了一會兒，外面傳來深沉的聲音。遊行隊伍正在接近。它就像一個巨大的潮水般湧來，並在聚集的黑暗中帶著百餘支新點燃的火炬流入廣大的地方。</p>
<p>In less than half-an-hour the ruined amphitheatre was a moving mass of
heads from the ground to its upmost storey. Long sinuous trails of blue
smoke swept across the people's faces, and the great brown mass of
circular stones was lit up in fitful gleams.</p><p>在不到半小時的時間裡，破壞的競技場從地面到最上層都變成了一片頭顱的海洋。長長的藍色煙霧蔓延在人群的臉上，而巨大的棕色石塊群在不定時的閃爍中點亮了起來。</p>
<p>Roma was lifted off her feet by the breaker of human beings<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00257" title="201"><a id="Page_201" title="201"></a></span> that surged
around. At one moment she was conscious of some one behind who was
pressing the people back and making room for her. At the next moment she
was aware that through the multitudinous murmur of voices that rumbled
as in a vault somebody near her was trying to speak.</p><p>"羅馬被周圍她的人群擠得雙腳離地。有一剎那，她注意到有人在身後，正在逼退人群為她騰出空間。下一剎那，她意識到在像在穹頂下隆隆轟鳴的眾多聲音中，有人在嘗試跟她說話。"</p>
<p>The speaking ceased and there was a sharp crackle of applause which had
the effect of producing silence. In this silence another voice, a clear,
loud, vibrating voice, said, "Romans and brothers," and then there was a
prolonged shout of recognition from ten thousand throats.</p><p>發言結束後，響起了尖銳的掌聲，這使得場地陷入寂靜。在這個寂靜中，另一個清晰、洪亮、震動的聲音說：“羅馬人和兄弟們”，然後來自一萬個喉嚨的認可聲持續不斷地呼喊。</p>
<p>In a moment a dozen torches were handed up, and the speaker was in a
circle of light and could be seen by all. It was Rossi. He was standing
bareheaded on a stone, with a face of unusual paleness. He was wearing
the loose cloak of the common people of Rome, thrown across his breast
and shoulder. Bruno stood by his left side holding a standard above
their heads. At his right hand were two other men who partly concealed
him from the crowd. Roma found herself immediately below them, and
within two or three paces.</p><p>`頃刻間，有十幾支火炬被遞上來，發言人立刻被照亮，全場的人都看得見他。那個人是羅西。他站在一塊石頭上，面色格外蒼白，沒戴帽子。他身穿羅馬平民的寬散披風，橫跨在胸口和肩膀上。布魯諾站在他的左側，頭頂高舉著一面旗幟。在他右手邊的是兩個男人，他們有些遮擋著他，使他不能被人群完全看見。羅馬發現自己就在他們的正下方，距離他們只有兩到三步的地方。`</p>
<p>After a moment the shouting died down, and there was no sound in the
vast place but a soft, quick, indrawn hiss that was like the palpitating
breath of an immense flock of sheep. Then Rossi began again.</p><p>`片刻之後，喊叫聲逐漸平息，這個廣大的地方再也沒有其他聲音，只有一種柔和、迅速、吸入的嘶嘶聲，就像一群巨大的羊群的急促呼吸。然後，羅西又開始了。`</p>
<p>"First and foremost," he said, "let me call on you to preserve the
peace. One false step to-night and all is lost. Our enemies would like
to fix on us the name of rebels. Rebels against whom? There is no
rebellion except rebellion against the people. The people are the true
sovereigns, and the only rebels are the classes who oppress them."</p><p>"首先和最重要的是，"他說，"讓我呼籲你們保持和平。今晚一個錯誤的步驟，一切就全都失去了。我們的敵人會喜歡把我們稱為叛逆者。反叛誰呢？除了反抗人民之外，沒有其他的叛亂。人民是真正的主權者，唯一的叛亂者則是壓迫他們的階級。"</p>
<p>A murmur of assent broke from the crowd. Rossi paused, and looked around
at the soldiers.</p><p>一股贊同的低語從人群中傳出。羅西停了下來，四周看著士兵們。</p>
<p>"Romans," he said, "do not let the armed rebels of the State provoke you
to violence. It is to their interest to do so. Defeat them. You have
come here in the face of their rifles and bayonets to show that you are
not afraid of death. But I ask you to be afraid of doing an unrighteous
thing. It is on my responsibility that you are here, and it would be an
undying remorse to me if through any fault of yours one drop of blood
were shed.</p><p>"羅馬人，"他說，"不要讓國家的武裝叛亂者激起你們的暴力。這是他們的利益所在。您們要打敗他們。你們在他們的步槍和刺刀面前來到這裡，是為了表明你們不怕死。但我請你們害怕做不義的事。你們在這裡是由我負責，如果因為你們的任何失誤而流出一滴血，那對我來說將是無法抹去的痛苦。"</p>
<p>"I call on you as earnestly as if my nearest and dearest were among you,
liable to be shot down by the rifles of the military, not to give any
excuse for violence."</p><p>"我呼籲你們，就像我親愛的家人在你們之中，可能會被軍人的槍械射倒一般，請不要給任何暴力行為留下藉口。"</p>
<p>Roma turned to look at the soldiers. As far as she<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00258" title="202"><a id="Page_202" title="202"></a></span> could see in the
uncertain light, they were standing passively in their circle, with
their rifles by their sides.</p><p>羅馬轉過身來看那些士兵。在不確定的光線下，她能看到的只是他們站在他們的圈子裡，被動地，他們的步槍放在他們的身邊。</p>
<p>"Romans," said Rossi again, "a month ago we protested against an
iniquitous tax on the first necessary of life. The answer is sixty
thousand men in arms around us. Therefore we are here to-night to appeal
to the mightiest force on earth, mightier than any army, more powerful
than any parliament, more absolute than any king—the force of moral
sympathy and public opinion throughout the world."</p><p>"羅馬人，"羅西再次說道，"一個月前，我們抗議對生活的第一個必需品的不公稅收。答覆是我們周圍六萬名士兵。因此，我們今晚在此，將向地球上最強大的力量呼籲，比任何軍隊更強，比任何議會更具影響力，比任何國王更絕對——道德同情和世界各地的公共輿論力量。"</p>
<p>At this there were shouts of "Bravo!" and some clapping of hands.</p><p>於此，有人高喊“太棒了！”並且有些人在鼓掌。</p>
<p>"Romans, if your bread is moistened by tears to-day, think of the power
of suffering and be strong. Think of the history of these old walls.
Think of the words of Christ, 'Which of the prophets have not your
fathers stoned?' The prophets of humanity have all been martyrs, and God
has marked you out to be the martyr nation of the world. Suffering is
the sacred flame that sanctifies the human soul. Pray to God for
strength to suffer, and He will bless you from the heights of Heaven."</p><p>"羅馬人，如果今天你的麵包被淚水濕潤，思考苦難的力量並堅強。想想這些古老牆壁的歷史。想想基督的話語，'你們的祖先沒有砸死哪個先知呢？'人性的先知們全都是烈士，而上帝選定了你們成為世界上的殉道者國家。苦難是神聖的火焰，使人的靈魂成聖。向上帝祈求有力量去忍受苦難，他將從天堂之高祝福你們。"</p>
<p>People were weeping on every hand.</p><p>"到處都有人在哭泣。"</p>
<p>"Brothers, you are hungry, and I say these things to you with a beating
heart. Your children are starving, and I swear before God that from this
day forward I will starve with them. If I have eaten two meals a day
hitherto, for the future I will eat but one. But leave it to the powers
that are over you to do their worst. If they imprison you for resisting
their tyrannies, others will take your place. If they kill your leader,
God will raise up another who will be stronger than he. Swear to me in
this old Coliseum, sacred to the martyrs, that, come what may, you will
not yield to injustice and wrong."</p><p>"兄弟們，你們饑餓，我用撲通撲通跳著的心對你們說這些話。你們的孩子在挨餓，我在上帝面前發誓，從今天開始我將和他們一起挨餓。以前我每天吃兩頓飯，從今以後我只會吃一頓。但把事情交給你們的權力機關來決定。如果他們因為你們抵抗他們的暴行而將你們囚禁，其他人將替你們舉起抵抗的旗幟。如果他們殺死你們的領導者，上帝將興起一個比他更強大的人。在這座神聖的大殿中，對我發誓，無論發生什麼事，你們都不會屈服於不公正和錯誤。"</p>
<p>There was something in Rossi's face at that last moment that seemed to
transcend the natural man. He raised his right arm over his head and in
a loud voice cried, "Swear!"</p><p>在那最後時刻，羅西臉上似乎顯露出超越凡人之處。他抬起右臂，大聲喊道："發誓!"</p>
<p>The people took the oath with uplifted hands and a great shout. It was
terrible.</p><p>人們舉起手來，大聲宣誓。那瞬間非常震撼。</p>
<p>Rossi stepped down, and the excitement was overwhelming. The vast crowd
seemed to toss to and fro under the smoking lights like a tumultuous
sea. The simple-hearted Roman populace could not contain themselves.</p><p>"羅西下臺，興奮之情無法控制。在煙霧中的燈光下，大群人群像翻騰的海洋一樣來來回回。簡單樸實的羅馬民眾無法克制自己。"</p>
<p>The crowd began to break up, and the people went off singing. Rossi and
his group of friends had disappeared<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00259" title="203"><a id="Page_203" title="203"></a></span> when Roma turned to go. She found
herself weeping and singing, too, but for another reason. The danger was
passed, and all was over!</p><p>眾人開始散去，並唱歌離開。當羅馬轉身離開時，羅西和他的朋友團已經消失了。她發現自己也在哭泣和唱歌，但是出於另一個原因。危險已經過去，一切都結束了！</p>
<p>Going out by one of the arches, she was conscious of somebody walking
beside her. Presently a voice said:</p><p>"走出其中一個拱門，她意識到有人正在她旁邊走。不久，有聲音說："</p>
<p>"You don't recognise me in the darkness, Donna Roma?"</p><p>"唐娜，羅馬，在黑暗中，你認不出我來嗎？"</p>
<p>It was Charles Minghelli. He had been told to take care of her. Could he
offer her his escort home?</p><p>那是查爾斯·明赫利。他被告知要照顧她。他可以提供護送她回家嗎？</p>
<p>"No, thank you," she replied, and she was surprised at herself that she
experienced no repulsion.</p><p>"不，謝謝你，"她回答說，她對自己感到驚訝，因為她並未感到厭惡。</p>
<p>Her heart was light, a great weight had been lifted away, and she felt a
large and generous charity. At the top of the hill she found a cab, and
as it dipped down the broad avenue that leads out of the circle of the
dead centuries into the world of living men, she turned and looked back
at the Coliseum. It was like a dream. The moving lights—the shadows of
great heads on the grim old walls—the surging crowds—the cheers from
hoarse throats. But the tinkle of the electric tram brought her back to
reality, and then she noticed that it had begun to snow.</p><p>她的心情舒暢，繁重的壓力已經消除，洋溢著豐富而慷慨的關懷。在山頂上，她找到了一輛出租車，當車子沿著寬闊的大道下坡，從死去的世紀的圓圈向活著的人的世界前行，她回頭望了一眼羅馬競技場。它就像一場夢。移動的燈光-古老牆壁上巨大頭部的影子-湧動的人群-嘶啞的尖叫。但電車的叮噹聲將她拉回了現實，然後她注意到開始下雪了。</p>
<hr class="minor"/>
<p>Bruno ploughed a way for David Rossi, and they reached home at last.</p><p>布魯諾為大衛·羅西鋪開了道路，他們終於回到家了。</p>
<p>Elena was standing at the door of David Rossi's rooms, with an agitated
face.</p><p>艾琳娜站在大衛·羅西的房間門口，臉色慌亂。</p>
<p>"Have you seen anything of Joseph?" she asked.</p><p>"你有沒有見過喬瑟夫？" 她問。</p>
<p>"Joseph?"</p><p>"約瑟夫？"</p>
<p>"I opened the window to look if you were coming, and in a moment he was
gone. On a night like this, too, when it isn't too safe for anybody to
be in the streets."</p><p>"我打開窗戶看你是否來了，然後他在一瞬間就消失了。就在像今晚這樣的夜晚，對任何人來說在街頭都不太安全。"</p>
<p>"Has he still got the clothes on?" said Bruno.</p><p>“他還穿著那件衣服嗎？”布魯諾問。</p>
<p>"Yes, and the naughty boy has broken his promise and must be whipped."</p><p>"是的，這個調皮的男孩已經打破了他的承諾，必須被鞭打。"</p>
<p>The men looked into each other's faces.</p><p>那些男人相互對視。</p>
<p>"Donna Roma?" said Rossi.</p><p>"羅馬的女士?"羅西說。</p>
<p>"I'll go and see," said Bruno.</p><p>"我會去看看，"布魯諾說。</p>
<p>"I must have a rod, whatever you say. I really must!" said Elena.</p><p>"無論你說什麼，我必須有一根棒子。我真的必須!" Elena說。</p>
<h3 id="pgepubid00260">VII</h3>
<p>Roma reached home in a glow of joy. She told herself that Rossi would
come to her in obedience to her command. He must dine with her to-night.
Seven was now striking on<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00261" title="204"><a id="Page_204" title="204"></a></span> all the clocks outside, and to give him time
to arrive she put back the dinner until eight. Her aunt would dine in
her own room, so they would be quite alone. The conventions of life had
fallen absolutely away, and she considered them no more.</p><p>羅馬帶著喜悅之情回到家中。她告訴自己羅西會服從她的命令，來跟她見面。他今晚必須跟她一起吃飯。此時距離晚餐還有一個小時，她決定把晚餐推遲到八點。她的阿姨會在自己的房間內用餐，所以他們會完全獨處。生活中的習俗已經全部消褍，她不再考慮它們。</p>
<p>Meantime she must dress and perhaps take a bath. A certain sense of
soiling which she could not conquer had followed her up from that
glorious meeting. She felt a little ashamed of it, but it was there, and
though she told herself "They were <i>his</i> people, poor things," she was
glad to take off the clothes she had worn at the Coliseum.</p><p>與此同時，她需要穿衣，也許還需要洗澡。自從那次盛大的會面後，她始終帶著一種她無法克服的污穢感。她對此感到有點羞愧，但那種感覺就在那裡，雖然她告訴自己“他們是他的人民，可憐的東西”，但她還是很高興能脫掉她在羅馬大競技場所穿的衣服。</p>
<p>She combed out the curls of her glossy black hair, put herself into a
loose tea gown and red slippers, took one backward glance at herself in
the glass, and then going into the drawing-room, she stood by the window
to dream and wait. The snow still fell in thin flakes, but the city was
humming on, and the piazza down below was full of people.</p><p>她梳理自己光滑黑色捲髮的捲曲，穿上寬鬆的茶禮服和紅色拖鞋，向鏡中自己回眸一望，然後走進客廳，在窗邊站著做白日夢並等待。雪仍在細細地飄落，但城市仍在嗡嗡作響，下面的廣場上滿是人。</p>
<p>After a while the electric bell of the outer door was rung, and her
heart beat against her breast. "It's he," she thought, and in the
exquisite tumult of the moment she lifted her arms and turned to meet
him.</p><p>過了一會兒，外門的電鈴響了，她的心在胸口砰砰跳動。"那是他，"她心想。在這一剎那的細膩困亂中，她舉起了手臂，轉身去迎接他。</p>
<p>But when the door was opened it was the Baron Bonelli who was shown into
the room. He was in evening dress, with black tie and studs which had a
chilling effect, and his manner was as cold and calm as usual.</p><p>但是當門袖打開的時候，進來的卻是巴羅尼·博內利男爵。他身穿晚禮服，配有冷淡的黑色領結和袖釦，他的舉止跟往常一樣冷靜而安詳。</p>
<p>"I regret," he said, "that we must enter on a painful interview."</p><p>"我遺憾地說，"他說，"我們必須進行一次痛苦的面談。"</p>
<p>"As you please," she answered, and sitting on a stool by the fire she
rested her elbows on her knees, and looked straight before her.</p><p>"隨你便,"她回答，然後坐在火堆旁的凳子上，肘部搭在膝頭上，直直地看著前方。</p>
<p>"Your letter of last night, my dear, produced the result you desired. I
sent for Commendatore Angelelli, invented some plausible excuses, and
reversed my orders. I also sent for Minghelli and told him to take care
of you on your reckless errand. The matter has thus far ended as you
wished, and I trust you are satisfied."</p><p>"親愛的，你昨晚的信產生了你期望的結果。我召喚了Commendatore Angelelli，編造了一些看似合理的藉口，並撤銷了我的命令。我也召見了Minghelli，告訴他在你的魯莽任務中要照顧你。到目前為止，事情已經按照你的願望結束，我相信你應該會感到滿意。"
</p>
<p>She nodded her head without turning round, and bore herself with a
certain air of defiance.</p><p>她沒有轉過頭來，只是點點頭，並以一種挑釁的態度扮演自己。</p>
<p>"But it is necessary that we should come to an understanding," he
continued. "You have driven me hard, my child. With all the tenderness
and sympathy possible, I am compelled to speak plainly. I wished to
spare your feelings. You will not permit me to do so."<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00262" title="205"><a id="Page_205" title="205"></a></span></p><p>"但是，我們必須達成共識，"他繼續說道。"你把我逼得很緊，我的孩子。儘管我懷著所有的溫柔和同情，但我不得不直言不諱。我希望能夠體諒你的感受。你不允許我這麼做。"</p>
<p>The incisiveness of his speech cut the air like ice dropping from a
glacier, and Roma felt herself turning pale with a sense of something
fearful whirling around her.</p><p>他的言辭犀利，如冰川落下的冰塊刺破空氣，羅馬感到自己因為感到有某種可怕的東西在她周圍旋轉而變得蒼白。</p>
<p>"According to your own plans, Rossi is to marry you within a week,
although a month ago he spoke of you in public as an unworthy woman.
Will you be good enough to tell me how this miracle has come to pass?"</p><p>"根據你自己的計劃，羅西將在一週內娶你，雖然一個月前他公開地說你是一個不值得的女人。你能告訴我這個奇蹟是如何發生的嗎？"</p>
<p>She laughed, and tried to carry herself bravely.</p><p>她笑了，然後試圖勇敢地挺身而出。</p>
<p>"If it is a miracle, how can I explain it?" she said.</p><p>"如果這是奇蹟，我該如何解釋呢？" 她說。</p>
<p>"Then permit me to do so. He is going to marry you because he no longer
thinks as he thought a month ago; because he believes he was wrong in
what he said, and would like to wipe it out entirely."</p><p>"那麼請讓我這麼做。他將娶你，因為他不再像一個月前那樣思考；因為他認為他在說的事情上犯了錯，並希望完全抹去它。"</p>
<p>"He is going to marry me because he loves me," she answered hotly;
"that's why he is going to marry me."</p><p>"他要娶我，因為他愛我，"她激動地回答，"這就是他要娶我的原因。"</p>
<p>At the next moment a faintness came over her, and a misty vapour flashed
before her sight. In her anger she had torn open a secret place in her
own heart, and something in the past of her life seemed to escape as
from a tomb.</p><p>在下一刻，她感到一種虛弱，霧氣在她的視線前閃爍。在她的憤怒中，她撕開了自己心中的秘密地方，她生活中的過去似乎像從墓穴中逃逸一樣。</p>
<p>"Then you have not told him?" said the Baron in so low a voice that he
could scarcely be heard.</p><p>"那麼你還沒告訴他嗎？"男爵的聲音低得幾乎聽不見。</p>
<p>"Told him what?" she said.</p><p>"她說，「告訴他什麼？」"</p>
<p>"The truth—the fact."</p><p>"真相—事實。"</p>
<p>She caught her breath and was silent.</p><p>她屏住呼吸，保持沉默。</p>
<p>"My child, you are doing wrong. There is a secret between you already.
That is a bad basis to begin life upon, and the love that is raised on
it will be a house built on the sand."</p><p>"我的孩子，你正在犯錯。 你們之間已經有秘密。 那是開始生活的壞基礎，並且建立在其上的愛將是建在沙土上的房子。"</p>
<p>Her heart was beating violently, but she turned on him with a burning
glance.</p><p>她的心跳得非常劇烈，但她卻用燃燒的目光回看他。</p>
<p>"What do you mean?" she said, while the colour increased in her cheeks
and forehead. "I am a good woman. You know I am."</p><p>“你是什麼意思？”她說，臉頰和前額的顏色加深了。“我是個好女人。你知道我是。”</p>
<p>"To me, yes! The best woman in the world."</p><p>對我來說，她是！世界上最好的女人。</p>
<p>She had risen to her feet, and was standing by the chimney-piece.</p><p>她已經站起來，站在壁爐旁邊。</p>
<p>"Understand me, my child," he said affectionately. "When I say you are
doing wrong, it is only in keeping a secret from the man you intend to
marry. Between you and me ... there is no secret."</p><p>"明白我的意思，我的孩子，"他深情地說，"當我說你做得不對時，我只是說你向準備嫁給的人隱瞞了秘密。在你和我之間...沒有秘密。"</p>
<p>She looked at him with haggard eyes.</p><p>她用憔悴的眼神看著他。</p>
<p>"For me you are everything that is sweet and good, but<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00263" title="206"><a id="Page_206" title="206"></a></span> for another who
knows? When a man is about to marry a woman, there is one thing he can
never forgive. Need I say what that is?"</p><p>"對我來說，你是所有甜蜜與善良的結晶，但對另一個人，誰知道呢？當一個男人準備娶一個女人時，有一件事他永遠無法原諒。我還需要說是什麼事情嗎？"</p>
<p>The glow that had suffused her face changed to the pallor of marble, and
she turned to the Baron and stood over him with the majesty of a statue.</p><p>那光芒已經充滿她的臉龐轉變為大理石般的蒼白，她轉向男爵，並以雕像的威嚴站在他身旁。</p>
<p>"Is it you that tell me this?" she said. "You—you? Can a woman never be
allowed to forget? Must the fault of another follow her all her life?
Oh, it is cruel! It is merciless.... But no matter!" she said in another
voice; and turning away from him she added, as if speaking to herself:
"He believes everything I tell him. Why should I trouble?"</p><p>"是你告訴我這件事的嗎？"她說。"你——你？一個女人難道永遠不能被允許忘掉嗎？別人的過錯必須跟隨她一生嗎？哦，這是如此的殘酷！這是無情的.... 但沒關係！"她又說，但聲音變了，而且從他身邊轉過身去，就像是對自己說的般補了一句："他相信我告訴他的每一件事。我為什麼要煩惱呢？"</p>
<p>The Baron followed her with a look that pierced to the depths of her
soul.</p><p>男爵用一種能洞察她靈魂深處的眼神跟隨著她。</p>
<p>"Then you have told him a falsehood?" he said.</p><p>"那你就對他說了一個謊言?"</p>
<p>She pressed her lips together and made no answer.</p><p>她緊閉雙唇，一言不發。</p>
<p>"That was foolish. By-and-by somebody may come along who will tell him
the truth."</p><p>"那是愚蠢的。遲早可能會有人來告訴他真相。"</p>
<p>"What can any one tell him that he has not heard already? He has heard
everything, and put it all behind his back."</p><p>"他還有什麼是沒有聽過的呢？他已經聽過所有的事情，並將它們全部拋在了腦後。"</p>
<p>"Could nobody bring conviction to his mind? Nobody whatever? Not even
one who had no interest in slandering you?"</p><p>"難道沒有人能使他相信我嗎？就沒有人可以嗎？即便是那些對誹謗你沒有任何利益的人也不可以嗎？"</p>
<p>"You don't mean that you...."</p><p>"你不是真的意思是你...."</p>
<p>"Why not? He has come between us. What could be more natural than that I
should tell him so?"</p><p>"為什麼不呢？他在我們之間產生了隔閡。我告訴他，有什麼比這更自然的呢？"</p>
<p>A look of dismay came over her face, and it was followed by an
expression of terror.</p><p>她的臉上露出了惶恐的神情，緊接著是恐懼的表情。</p>
<p>"But you wouldn't do that," she stammered. "You couldn't do it. It is
impossible. You are only trying me."</p><p>"但是你不會這麼做的，"她結結巴巴地說。"你做不到。這是不可能的。你只是在試探我。"</p>
<p>His face remained perfectly passive, and she seized him by the arm.</p><p>他的臉部表情完全無動於衷，而她則緊緊地抓住他的手臂。</p>
<p>"Think! Only think! You would do no good for yourself. You might stop
the marriage—yes! But you wouldn't carry out your political purpose.
You couldn't! And while you would do no good for yourself, think of the
harm you would do for me. He loves me, and you would hurt his beautiful
faith in me, and I should die of grief and shame."</p><p>"思考！只有思考！你這樣做對自己沒有任何好處。你可能會阻止這場婚姻——是的！但你無法實現你的政治目標。你做不到！而當你對自己沒有任何好處的同時，想想你會對我造成的傷害。他愛我，你會傷害他對我的美好信念，我會因為悲傷和羞恥而死。"</p>
<p>"You are cruel, my child," said the Baron, speaking with dignity. "You
think <i>I</i> am hard and unrelenting, but <i>you</i> are selfish and cruel. You
are so concerned about your own feelings<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00264" title="207"><a id="Page_207" title="207"></a></span> that you don't even suspect
that perhaps you are wounding mine."</p><p>"你殘忍，我的孩子，"男爵以尊嚴的語氣說道。 "你認為我冷酷無情，但實際上你自私且殘忍。 你如此考慮自己的感受，以至於你甚至沒有懷疑你可能傷害了我。"</p>
<p>"Ah, yes, it is too bad," she said, dropping to her knees at his feet.
"After all, you have been very good to me thus far, and it was partly my
own fault if matters ended as they did. Yes, I confess it. I was vain
and proud. I wanted all the world. And when you gave me everything,
being so tied yourself, I thought I might forgive you.... But I was
wrong—I was to blame—nothing in the world could excuse you—I saw that
the moment afterwards. I really hadn't thought at all until then—but
then my soul awoke. And then...."</p><p>"啊，是的，這實在太糟了，"她說著，跪在他的腳旁。
"畢竟，你到目前為止都對我很好，事情以這種方式結束，我自己也有部分的責任。是的，我承認。我曾經虛榮和驕傲。我想要擁有全世界。當你無私自我地給我一切的時候，我曾以為我可以原諒你.... 但我錯了,是我自己該受到譴責—世界上沒有什麼事情可以用來替你解脫那個罪名—我在事情發生後的那一刻就看到了。其實之前我真的沒有好好思考過任何事情—但那時候我的靈魂醒悟了。然後...."</p>
<p>She turned her head aside that he might not see her face.</p><p>她轉過頭去，以免他看到她的臉。</p>
<p>"And then love came, and I was like a woman who had married a man thirty
years older than herself—married without love—just for the sake of her
pride and vanity. But love, real love, drove all that away. It is gone
now; I only wish to lead a good life, however simple and humble it may
be. Let me do so!... Do not take him away from me! Do not...."</p><p>"然後愛情來了，我就像一個嫁給了一個比自己年長三十年的男人的女人——沒有愛情的婚姻——只是為了自尊和虛榮。但是真愛把這一切都驅散了。那已經過去了；我只希望過上好生活，不論多麼簡單和謙卑。讓我這樣做吧！...不要把他從我身邊帶走！不要...."</p>
<p>She stammered and stopped, with a sudden consciousness of what she was
doing.</p><p>她結結巴巴地說話，然後突然意識到自己在做什麼，便停了下來。</p>
<p>"What a fool I am!" she said, leaping to her feet. "What fresh story can
you tell him that he is likely to believe?"</p><p>“我真是個傻瓜！”她說著，跳起來。"你能告訴他什麼新鮮事，他可能會相信？"</p>
<p>"I can tell him that, according to the law of nature and of reason, you
belong to me," said the Baron.</p><p>"我可以告訴他，根據自然法則和理性，你屬於我，"男爵說。</p>
<p>"Very well! It will be your word against mine, will it not? Tell him,
and he will fling your insult in your face."</p><p>"很好！這將是你的話對抗我的話，不是嗎？告訴他，他會把你的侮辱擲回你的臉上。"</p>
<p>The Baron rose and began to walk about the room, and there were some
moments in which nothing could be heard but the slight creaking of his
patent-leather boots. Then he said:</p><p>男爵起身在房間裡走動，有些時候，只能聽到他的專利皮靴輕微的吱吱聲。然後他說:</p>
<p>"In that case I should be compelled to challenge him."</p><p>"在那種情況下，我將被迫向他發起挑戰。"</p>
<p>"Challenge him!" She repeated the words with scorn. "Is it likely? Do
you forget that duelling is a crime, that you are a Minister, that you
would have to resign, and expose yourself to penalties?"</p><p>“挑戰他！”她帶著鄙視重複這句話，“可能嗎？你忘記了決鬥是犯罪，你是一位部長，你必須辭職，並冒著被懲罰的風險。”</p>
<p>"If a man insults me grievously in my affections and my honour, I will
challenge him," said the Baron.</p><p>"如果有人深深地侮辱了我的情感和名證，我將挑戰他，"男爵說。</p>
<p>"But he will not fight—it would be contrary to his principles," said
Roma.</p><p>"但他不會去打架，那違背他的原則，"羅馬說。</p>
<p>"In that event he will never be able to lift his head in Italy again.
But make no mistake on that point, my child.<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00265" title="208"><a id="Page_208" title="208"></a></span> The man who is told that
the woman he is going to marry is secretly the wife of another must
either believe it or he must not. If he believes it, he casts her off
for ever. If he does not believe it, he fights for her name and his own
honour. If he does neither, he is not a man."</p><p>"如果那樣的話，他將再也無法在義大利抬起頭來。但是，我的孩子，對於這一點，萬不要誤解。被告知他即將娶的女人秘密地是別人的妻子的男人，他必須相信，或者他就不相信。如果他相信，他就會永遠把她拒之門外。如果他不相信，他將為她的名字和他自己的榮譽而戰。如果他兩者都不做，那他就不是個男人。"</p>
<p>Roma had returned to the stool, and was resting her elbows on her knees
and gazing into the fire.</p><p>"羅馬已經回到凳子上，她將肘部搭在膝蓋上，凝視著火堆。"</p>
<p>"Have you thought of that?" said the Baron. "If the man fights a duel,
it will be in defence of what you have told him. In the blindness of his
belief in your word he will be ready to risk his life for it. Are you
going to stand by and see him fight for a lie?"</p><p>"你有沒有想過這個？"男爵說道，"如果那個男人參與一場決鬥，那將是為了捍衛你告訴他的事情。由於他對你的話語堅信不移的盲目信念，他將會願意冒著生命危險為之鬥爭。你準備坐視他為一次謊言而戰鬥嗎？"</p>
<p>Roma hid her face in her hands.</p><p>羅馬把臉藏在手裡。</p>
<p>"Say he is wounded—it will be for a lie! Say he wounds his
adversary—that will be for a lie too! Say that David Rossi kills
me—what then? He must fly from Italy, and his career is at an end. If
he is alone, he is a miserable exile who has earned what he may not
enjoy. If you are with him, you are both miserable, for a lie stands
between you. Every hour of your life is poisoned by the secret you
cannot share with him. You are afraid of blurting it out in your sleep.
At last you go to him and confess everything. What then? The idol he
worshipped has turned to clay. What he thought an act of retribution is
a crime. The dead man had told the truth, and he committed murder on the
word of a woman who was a deceiver—a drab."</p><p>"說他受傷——那將是為了一個謊言！說他傷害了他的對手——那也將是為了一個謊言！假設大衛·羅斯在我身上殺了我——那又怎麼樣呢？他必須逃離義大利，他的事業到此結束。如果他獨自一人，他就是一個不幸的流亡者，得不到他所賺取的。如果你與他在一起，你們都會很悲慘，因為一個謊言阻擋在你們之間。你生活的每一個小時都受到你不能與他分享的秘密的毒害。你害怕在睡夢中脫口而出。最後，你去找他，坦白了一切。那又怎麼樣呢？他所崇拜的偶像變成了泥巴。他認為的報復行為是一種罪行。死者說出了真相，他卻因一個欺騙者——一個容易受人指責的女人的話而犯下了謀殺罪。"</p>
<p>Roma raised her hands to her head as if to avert a blow.</p><p>羅馬似乎要避開一擊，將手舉到頭上。</p>
<p>"Stop! stop!" she cried in a choking voice, and lifting her face,
distorted with suffering, tears rose in her eyes. To see Roma cry
touched the only tenderness of which his iron nature was capable. He
patted the beautiful head at his feet, and said in a caressing tone:</p><p>"停！停！"她以嘶聲喊叫，舉起充滿痛苦的 臉孔，眼淚在她眼中上升。看到羅馬哭泣觸動了他鐵石心腸所能的唯一的溫柔。他撫摸在他腳下的美麗頭髮，並以撫愛的語氣說道：</p>
<p>"Why will you make me seem so hard, my child? There is really no need to
talk of these things. They will not occur. How can I have any desire to
degrade you since I must degrade myself at the same time? I have no wish
to tell any one the secret which belongs only to you and me. In that
matter you were not to blame either. It was all my doing. I was
sweltering under the shameful law which tied me to a dead body, and I
tried to attach you to me. And then your beauty—your loveliness...."</p><p>"為什麼你要讓我顯得如此冷酷呢，我的孩子？其實沒有必要談論這些事情。這些事情不會發生。我怎麼可能有任何願望來貶低你，既然我必須同時貶低我自己？我並不希望告訴任何人只屬於你和我的秘密。在這件事情上，你也無可責怪。這全是我的錯。我正在忍受那令人羞恥的法律的煎熬，那條法律將我綁在一具死屍旁，而我試圖將你綁在我身邊。而後是你的美麗 - 你的可愛...."</p>
<p>At that moment Felice announced Commendatore Angelelli. Roma walked over
to the window and leaned her face<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00266" title="209"><a id="Page_209" title="209"></a></span> against the glass. Snow was still
falling, and there were some rumblings of thunder. Sheets of light shone
here and there in the darkness, but the world outside was dark and
drear. Would David Rossi come to-night? She almost hoped he would not.</p><p>那一刻，費利斯宣佈安傑萊利將軍來了。羅馬走向窗邊，將臉貼在玻璃上。雪仍在下，並且有些雷聲隆隆。在黑暗中，這裡那裡偶爾閃爍著光，但是外面的世界黑暗而陰鬱。大衛·羅西今晚會來嗎？她幾乎希望他不會來。</p>
<h3 id="pgepubid00267">VIII</h3>
<p>Behind her the Prime Minister, who had apologised for turning her house
into a temporary Ministry of the Interior, was talking to his Chief of
Police.</p><p>"在她身後的是總理，他曾為將她的房子變成臨時內政部而道歉，現在他正在和他的警察局長談話。"</p>
<p>"You were there yourself?"</p><p>"你自己在那裡嗎？"</p>
<p>"I was, Excellency. I went up into a high part and looked down. It was a
strange and wild sight."</p><p>"我是的，閣下。我上到一個高處，然後朝下看。那是一幅奇特而野性的景象。"</p>
<p>"How many would there be?"</p><p>"會有多少呢？"</p>
<p>"Impossible to guess. Inside and outside, Romans, country people,
perhaps a hundred thousand."</p><p>"無法猜測。裡面和外面，羅馬人，鄉下人，也許有十萬。"</p>
<p>"And Rossi's speech?"</p><p>"而羅西的演講呢？"</p>
<p>"The usual appeal to the passions of the people, Excellency. An
extraordinary exhibition of the art of flying between wind and water. We
couldn't have found a word that was distinctly seditious, even if we
hadn't had your Excellency's order to let the man go on."</p><p>"這只是通常對人民情感的呼籹，閣下。這是一場非常特別的飛越風與水之間的藝術表演。即使我們沒有閣下的命令讓這個人繼續，我們也找不到明顯的煽動性詞語。"</p>
<p>"You have stopped the telegraph wires?"</p><p>"你已經停止了電報線嗎？"</p>
<p>"Yes."</p><p>"是的。"</p>
<p>"When the meeting was over, Rossi went home?"</p><p>"當會議結束後，羅西回家了。"</p>
<p>"He did, Excellency."</p><p>"他確實做到了，閣下。"</p>
<p>"And the hundred thousand?"</p><p>"那一百萬呢？"</p>
<p>"In their excitement they began to sing and to march through the
streets. They are still doing so. After going down to the Piazza Navona,
they are coming up by the Piazza del Popolo and along the Babuino with
banners and torches."</p><p>"在他們的興奮中，他們開始唱歌並在街上行走。他們仍在繼續這樣做。在去到納沃納廣場（Piazza Navona）之後，他們透過人民廣場（Piazza del Popolo）和巴布伊諾沿線上來，攜帶旗幟和火炬。"</p>
<p>"Men only?"</p><p>"只有男人嗎？"</p>
<p>"Men, women, and children."</p><p>"男人，女人和孩子。"</p>
<p>"You would say that their attitude is threatening?"</p><p>"你會說他們的態度是威脅的嗎？"</p>
<p>"Distinctly threatening, your Excellency."</p><p>"明顯威脅，閣下。"</p>
<p>"Let your delegates give the legal warning and say that the gathering of
great mobs at this hour will be regarded as open rebellion. Allow three
minutes' grace for the sake of the women and children, and then ... let
the military do their duty."</p><p>"請讓你們的代表發出合法的警告，並說這個時刻聚集的大群眾將被視為公開的叛變。為了女人和孩子的緣故，留給他們三分鐘的寬恕時間，然後……讓軍方履行他們的職責。"</p>
<p>"Quite so, your Excellency."<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00268" title="210"><a id="Page_210" title="210"></a></span></p><p>"非常對，閣下。"</p>
<p>"After that you may carry out the instructions I gave you yesterday."</p><p>"之後，你可以執行我昨天給你的指示。"</p>
<p>"Certainly, your Excellency."</p><p>"當然，閣下。"</p>
<p>"Keep in touch with all the leaders. Some of them will find that the air
of Rome is a little dangerous to their health to-night, and may wish to
fly to Switzerland or England, where it would be impossible to follow
them."</p><p>"請與所有的領導人保持聯絡。今晚，他們中的一些人可能會發現羅馬的空氣對他們的健康有些危險，可能希望逃到瑞士或英國，那裡我們無法追蹤他們。"</p>
<p>Roma heard behind her the thin cackle as of a hen over her nest, which
always came when Angelelli laughed.</p><p>當安吉萊利笑的時候，羅馬總是能在身後聽到那種像母雞在巢裡的稀薄嘎嘎聲。</p>
<p>"Their meeting itself was illegal, and our license has been abused."</p><p>"他們的會議本身就是非法的，我們的許可證已被濫用。"</p>
<p>"Grossly abused, your Excellency."</p><p>"極端被虐待，閣下。"</p>
<p>"The action of the Government was too conciliatory, and has rendered
them audacious, but the new law is clear in prohibiting the carrying of
seditious flags and emblems."</p><p>"政府的行動過於緩和，令他們變得大膽，但新法很明確禁止攜帶煽動性的旗幟和標誌。"</p>
<p>"We'll deal with them according to Articles 134 and 252 of the Penal
Code, your Excellency."</p><p>"我們將根據刑法的第134條和第252條來處理他們，閣下。"</p>
<p>"You can go. But come back immediately if anything happens. I must
remain here for the present, and in case of riot I may have to send you
to the King."</p><p>"你可以走了。但如果發生任何事情，立刻回來。我現在必須待在這裡，如果發生暴亂，我可能需要你去找國王。"</p>
<p>Angelelli's thin voice fell to a whisper of awe at the mention of
Majesty, and after a moment he bowed and backed out of the room.</p><p>"安吉利的嗓音在提到陛下時變得尖細而敬畏，片刻後他鞠躬然後倒退出了房間。"</p>
<p>Roma did not turn round, and the Minister, who had touched the bell and
called for pen and paper, spoke to her from behind.</p><p>"羅馬沒有轉過身來，而部長則按下鈴鬧鈴，叫人拿來筆和紙，從她背後跟她說話。"</p>
<p>"I daresay you thought I was hard and inhuman at the Palazzo Braschi
yesterday, but I was really very merciful. In letting you see the
preparations to enclose your friend as in a net, I merely wished you to
warn him to fly from the country. He has not done so, and now he must
take the consequences."</p><p>"你可能認為我昨天在布拉斯奇宮表現得冷酷無情，但實際上我非常寬大。我讓你看到那些籠罩你朋友的準備工作，只是希望你能警告他逃離這個國家。他沒有這麼做，現在他必須承擔後果。"</p>
<p>Felice brought the writing materials, and the Baron sat down at the
table. There was a long silence in which nothing could be heard but the
scratching of the Minister's pen, the snoring of the poodle, and the
deadened sound through the wall of the Countess's testy voice scolding
Natalina.</p><p>"費利斯帶來了寫作材料，男爵坐在桌子前。長時間的沉默中，只能聽到部長筆劃的擦聲，獅子狗的鼾聲，還有經牆壁迴音的伯爵夫人對納塔麗娜的斥責聲。"</p>
<p>Roma stepped into the boudoir. The room was dark, and from its unlit
windows she could see more plainly into the streets. Masses of shadow
lay around, but the untrodden steps were white with thin snow, and the
piazza were alive with black figures which moved on the damp ground like
worms on an upturned sod.<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00269" title="211"><a id="Page_211" title="211"></a></span></p><p>羅馬步入了她的私人房間。這個房間很暗,透過未亮燈的窗戶,她更能清楚地看到街道。四周滿是影子,但是未踏過的階梯上卻鋪滿了薄薄的雪,廣場上充滿了黑色的人影,他們在潮溼的地面上移動,就像是翻土後的蚯蚓。</p>
<p>She was leaning her hot forehead against the glass and looking out with
haggard eyes, when a deep rumble as of a great multitude came from
below. The noise quickly increased to a loud uproar, with shouts, songs,
whistles, and shrill sounds blown out of door-keys. Before she was aware
of his presence the Baron was standing behind her, between the window
and the pedestal with the plaster bust of Rossi.</p><p>她把滾燙的前額靠在玻璃上，帶著憔悴的眼睛往外看，此時，下面傳來了一陣像是大群眾的深沉咆哮。那噪音迅速增強，變成了吵鬧的喧囂，伴隨著呼喊、歌聲、口哨聲，以及從門鑰匙中吹出的尖銳聲音。在她察覺到他的存在之前，男爵已經站在了她的身後，介於窗戶和羅西塑像的基座之間。</p>
<p>"Listen to them," he said. "The proletariat indeed!... And this is the
flock of bipeds to whom men in their senses would have us throw the
treasures of civilisation and hand over the delicate machinery of
government."</p><p>"聽聽他們,"他說。"真正的無產階級！... 這就是那群男人在理智中將我們的文明之寶交給他們，並交出政府精密機械的雙足動物的群體。"</p>
<p>He laughed bitterly, and drew back the curtain with an impatient hand.</p><p>他苦笑起來，不耐煩地用手拉開了窗簾。</p>
<p>"Democracy! <i>Christian</i> Democracy! <i>Vox Populi vox Dei</i>! The sovereignty
and infallibility of the people! Pshaw! I would as soon believe in the
infallibility of the Pope!"</p><p>"民主！基督教民主！民聲就是神聲！人民的主權和無誤性！哼！我寧願相信教皇的無誤性！"</p>
<p>The crowds increased in the piazza until the triangular space looked
like the rapids of a swollen river, and the noise that came up from it
was like the noise of falling cliffs and uprooted trees.</p><p>廣場上的人群不斷增多，直到這個三角形的空間看起來像一個湍急的河流，從中傳來的噪音就像是山崩地裂和樹木被連根拔起的聲音。</p>
<p>"Fools! Rabble! Too ignorant to know what you really want, and at the
mercy of every rascal who sows the wind and leaves you to reap the
whirlwind."</p><p>"愚人！暴民！太無知以至於不知道你真正想要什麼，任由每個狡猾的人播下風種子，卻讓你去收割旋風。"</p>
<p>Roma crept away from the Baron with a sense of physical repulsion, and
at the next moment, from the other window, she heard the blast of a
trumpet. A dreadful silence followed the trumpet blast, and then a clear
voice cried:</p><p>羅馬從男爵那裡悄悄溜走，充滿了身體的反感，
在下一刻，從另一扇窗戶，她聽到了號角的嘹亮聲。
號角聲後的那種可怕的寂靜，然後清晰的聲音喊著：</p>
<p>"In the name of the law I command you to disperse."</p><p>"根據法律的名義，我命令你們解散。"</p>
<p>It was the voice of a delegate of the police. Roma could see the man on
the lowest stage of the steps with his tricoloured scarf of office about
him. A second blast came from the trumpet, and again the delegate cried:</p><p>"那是警察代表的聲音。 羅馬可以看到那個人在臺階的最低處，他的身上纏著他辦公室的三色圍巾。 又一聲號角聲響起，代表再次呼喊："</p>
<p>"In the name of the law I command you to disperse."</p><p>"我以法律的名義命令你們散去。"</p>
<p>At that moment somebody cried, "Long live the Republic of Man!" and
there was great cheering. In the midst of the cheering the trumpet
sounded a third time, and then a loud voice cried "Fire!"</p><p>在那一刻，有人高呼：“萬歲，人民共和國！”接著，伴隨著熱烈的歡呼聲，號角響起了第三次。然後，一個響亮的聲音呼喊著“開火！”</p>
<p>At the next moment a volley was fired from somewhere, a cloud of white
smoke was coiling in front of the window at which Roma stood, and women
and children in the vagueness below were uttering acute cries.</p><p>下一刻，某處突然射出一陣砲火，白色的煙霧在羅馬站立的窗戶前捲繞，並且在下方的模糊中，女人和孩子發出尖銳的哭聲。</p>
<p>"Oh! oh! oh!"<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00270" title="212"><a id="Page_212" title="212"></a></span></p><p>"哦！哦！哦！"</p>
<p>"Don't be afraid, my child. Nothing has happened yet. The police had
orders to fire first over the people's heads."</p><p>"別害怕，我的孩子。目前還沒有發生什麼事情。警方的命令是先朝人群的頭上開火。"</p>
<p>In her fear and agitation Roma ran back to the outer room, and a moment
afterwards Angelelli opened the door and stood face to face with her.</p><p>在她的恐懼和焦慮中，羅馬跑回外面的房間，不久之後，安吉萊利打開門，面對著她。</p>
<p>"What have you done?" she demanded.</p><p>"你做了什麼？" 她要求說。</p>
<p>"An unfortunate incident, Excellency," said Angelelli, as the Baron
appeared. "After the warning of the delegate the mob laughed and threw
stones, and the Carabineers fired. They were in the piazza and fired up
the steps."</p><p>"一個不幸的事件，閣下，"安吉內利對出現的男爵說。"在代表的警告之後，暴民嘲笑並投擲石頭，並且憲兵開火。他們在廣場上，朝著臺階上面開槍。"</p>
<p>"Well?"</p><p>"好嗎？"</p>
<p>"Unluckily there were a few persons on the upper flights at the moment,
and some of them are wounded, and a child is dead."</p><p>"不幸的是，那時候樓上有一些人，其中一些人受傷了，一個孩子死了。"</p>
<p>Roma muttered a low moan and sank on to the stool.</p><p>"羅馬呻吟了一聲，然後沉重地坐在凳子上。"</p>
<p>"Whose child is it?"</p><p>"這是誰的孩子？"</p>
<p>"We don't yet know, but the father is there, and he is raging like a
madman, and unless he is arrested he will provoke the people to frenzy,
and there will be riot and insurrection."</p><p>「我們還不知道，但是父親在那裡，他像瘋子一樣在狂怒，除非他被逮捕，否則他將激怒人們，使他們陷入瘋狂，會引發騷亂和暴動。」</p>
<p>The Baron took from the table a letter he had written and sealed.</p><p>男爵從桌子上拿起他已經寫好並封好的信。</p>
<p>"Take this to the Quirinal instantly. Ask for an immediate audience with
the King. When you receive his written reply, call up the Minister of
War and say you have the royal decree to declare a state of siege."</p><p>"立即把這個帶到奎里納爾。要求立即與國王見面。當你收到他的書面回覆時，聯絡戰爭部長並說你有皇家法令宣佈進入緊急狀態。"</p>
<p>Angelelli was going out hurriedly.</p><p>"Angelelli正急匆匆地出去。"</p>
<p>"Wait! Send to the Piazza Navona and arrest Rossi. Be careful! You will
arrest the Deputy under Articles 134 and 252 on a charge of using the
great influence he has acquired over the people to urge the masses by
speeches and writings to resist public authority and to change violently
the form of government and the constitution of the State."</p><p>"等一下！派人到納沃納廣場去抓羅西。小心點！你們將根據第134條和第252條逮捕副官，罪名是利用他在民眾中獲得的巨大影響力，透過演講和寫作煽動大眾抵抗公權力，暴力改變國家政府形式和憲法。"</p>
<p>"Good!"</p><p>"好！"</p>
<p>Angelelli disappeared, the acute cries outside died away, the scurrying
of flying feet was no more heard, and Roma was still on the stool before
the fire, moaning behind the hands that covered her face. The Baron came
near to her and touched her with a caressing gesture.</p><p>"安傑列利消失了，外面的尖銳叫聲停止了，飛奔的腳步聲也再也沒有聽見，而羅馬仍然坐在火前的凳子上，在掩面的手背後呻吟。男爵靠近她，用撫摸的手勢觸碰她。"</p>
<p>"I'm sorry, my child, very sorry. Rossi is a dreamer, not a statesman,
but he is none the less troublesome on that account No wonder he has
fascinated you, as he has fascinated the people, but time will wipe away
an impression like<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00271" title="213"><a id="Page_213" title="213"></a></span> that. The best thing that can happen for both of you
is that he should be arrested to-night. It will save you so many ordeals
and so much sorrow."</p><p>"對不起，我的孩子，非常抱歉。羅西是一位夢想家，而非政治家，但這並不意味他沒有麻煩問題。難怪他能夠吸引你，如同他吸引了眾人，但時間會慢慢淡化這種印象。最好的選擇就是他被逮捕在今晚。這將為你們兩人省去許多磨難與悲傷。"</p>
<p>At that moment a cannon-shot boomed through the darkness outside, and
its vibration rattled the windows and walls.</p><p>那一刻，炮火在外面的黑暗中轟鳴，其震動使窗戶和牆壁嘩啦啦地響了起來。</p>
<p>"The signal from St. Angelo," said the Baron. "The gates are closed and
the city is under siege."</p><p>"聖安吉洛發來的訊號，"男爵說。"城門已經關閉，城市正在被圍攻。"</p>
<h3 id="pgepubid00272">IX</h3>
<p>When, in the commotion of the household caused by the near approach of
the crowd which brought Rossi home from the Coliseum, little Joseph
slipped down the stairs and made a dash for the street, he chuckled to
himself as he thought how cleverly he had eluded his mother, who had
been looking out of the bedroom window, and those two old watch-dogs,
his grandfather and grandmother, who were nearly always at the door.</p><p>當家中因羅西從大競技場歸來的人群臨近而引起的騷動中，小約瑟夫溜下樓梯，衝向街道時，他想到自己如何巧妙地逃過了他的母親，他的母親一直從臥室窗口往外看，還有那兩個像老看門狗一樣經常站在門口的祖父母，他就忍不住暗自嘲笑。</p>
<p>It was not until he was fairly plunged into the great sea of the city,
and had begun to be a little dazed by more lights than he ever saw when
he closed his eyes in bed, that he remembered that he had disobeyed
orders and broken his promise not to go out. But even then, he told
himself, he was not responsible. He was Donna Roma's porter now.
Therefore, he couldn't be Joseph, could he?</p><p>直到他完全陷入城市的大海，並開始被比他在床上閉眼時看到的更多燈光弄得有點昏昏沉沉時，他才記起自己已經違背了命令，打破了不出去的承諾。但即便如此，他告訴自己，他不負責。他現在是Donna Roma的門房。因此，他不可能是Joseph，對吧？</p>
<p>So, with his magic mace in hand, the serious man of seven marched on,
and reconciled himself to his disobedience by thinking nothing more
about it. People looked at him and smiled as he passed through the
Piazza Madama, where the Senate House stands, and that made him lift his
head and walk on proudly, but as he went through the Piazza of the
Pantheon a boy who was coming out of a cookshop with a tray on his head
cried, "Helloa, kiddy! playing Pulcinello?" and that dashed his
worshipful dignity for several minutes.</p><p>於是，這名身材威武的男子攜帶著他的魔法釘錘，毅然向前行去。他用不再追思此事來安慰他的不順從。當他穿過馬達馬廣場，人們看著他並對他微笑，這是在參議院的所在地。這讓他抬起頭，自豪地繼續向前行走。但當他穿過萬神殿的廣場時，一個從烹飪店裡出來並頭頂著託盤的男孩喊道，“嘿，小子！在扮演普奇內洛嗎？”這打破了他幾分鐘的威嚴崇拜感。</p>
<p>It began to snow, and the white flakes on his gold braid clouded his
soul at first, but when he remembered that porters had to work in all
weathers, he wagged his sturdy head and strode on. He was going to Donna
Roma's according to her invitation, and he found his way by his
recollection of what he had seen when he made the same journey on
Sunday—here<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00273" title="214"><a id="Page_214" title="214"></a></span> a tramcar coming round a corner, there a line of posts
across a narrow thoroughfare, and there a fat man with a gruff voice
shouting something at the door of a trattoria.</p><p>`當雪花開始飄落，漂落在他的金色鑲邊上，他的心情原本有些沉重。但是他想到，搬運工無論天氣如何都需要工作，他便挺直了背，繼續前進。他正按照邀請前往朵納·羅瑪的家，他依靠記憶找到路，他是這樣找到週日時同樣的路線——這裡有一輛電車正從轉角處駛來，那裡有一排柱子橫在窄巷中，再往前有個胖男人，他在一個小餐館的門口用沙啞的嗓音喊著什麼。`</p>
<p>At the corner of a lane there was a shop window full of knives and
revolvers. He didn't care for knives—they cut people's fingers—but he
liked guns, and when he grew up to be a man he would buy one and kill
somebody.</p><p>在一條巷子的角落，有一家商店的櫥窗裡滿是刀和手槍。他對刀子不感興趣 - 它們會割傷人的手指 - 但他喜歡槍，當他長大成為一個男子時，他會購買一把並殺死某人。</p>
<p>Coming to the Piazza Monte Citorio, he remembered the soldiers at the
door of the House of Parliament, and the cellar full of long guns with
knives (bayonets) stuck on the ends of their muzzles. One of the
soldiers laughed, called him "Uncle," and asked him something about
enlisting, but he only struck his mace firmly on the flags and marched
on.</p><p>來到蒙泰奇多里奧廣場，他想起了國會大廈門口的士兵，和地窖裡堆滿了刺刀插在槍口的長槍。其中一名士兵笑著，稱他為“叔叔”，並問他是否要入伍，但他只是堅定地擊打他的權杖在旗子上，然後繼續前進。</p>
<p>At the corner of the Piazza Colonna he had to wait some time before he
could cross the Corso, for the crowds were coming both ways and the
traffic frightened him. He had made various little sorties and had been
driven back, when a soft hand was slipped into his fat palm and he was
piloted across in safety. Then he looked up at his helper. It was a girl
with big white feathers in her hat, and her face painted pink and white
like the face of the little Jesus in the cradle in church at Christmas.
She asked him what his name was, and he told her; also where he was
going, and he told her that too. It was dark by this time, and the great
little man was beginning to be glad of company.</p><p>在皮亞扎科洛尼（Piazza Colonna）的角落，他需要等待一段時間才能夠穿越科爾索(Corso)，因為人群從兩個方向湧來，交通讓他感到害怕。他做了幾次小規模的突擊嘗試，但每次都被阻撓回來，這時，一隻柔軟的手滑入他的胖胖的手掌，安全地引導他透過。然後，他抬頭看向他的救星。那是一個女孩，她帽子上插著大大的白羽毛，臉上塗著粉紅色和白色的臉譜，像聖誕節教堂裡搖籃中的小耶穌的臉。她問他叫什麼名字，他告訴了她；她也問他要去哪裡，他也告訴了她。此時已經是黑夜，而這個小偉人開始感到歡迎有人相伴。</p>
<p>"Aren't you tired of carrying that heavy stick?" she said.</p><p>「你不覺得拿著那根重棒子很累嗎？」她說。</p>
<p>It wasn't a stick, and he wasn't a bit tired of carrying it.</p><p>那不是根棍子，他一點也不覺得拿著它累。</p>
<p>"But aren't you tired <i>yourself</i>?" she said, and he admitted that
perhaps it was so.</p><p>"但你自己不是也累了嗎？"她說，他承認可能是這樣的。</p>
<p>So she picked him up, and carried him in her arms, while he carried the
mace, and for some minutes both were satisfied. But presently some one
in the Via Tritone cried out, "Helloa! here comes the Blessed Bambino,"
whereupon his worshipful dignity was again wounded, and he wriggled to
the ground.</p><p>於是她將他捧起，把他抱在懷裡，他則手裡持著權杖。有片刻兩人都感到滿足。但不久，在特利托內通道(Tritone Via)上的某個人喊道，“喂！神聖的嬰兒來了，”於是他崇高的尊嚴再次受到傷害，並且掙扎著落到地上。</p>
<p>It began to thunder and there were some flashes of lightning, whereupon
Joseph shuddered and crept closer to the girl's side.</p><p>開始打雷並出現一些閃電，約瑟夫因此戰慄並向女孩一側靠得更近。</p>
<p>"Are you afraid of lightning, Joseph?" she asked.</p><p>"Joseph，你怕閃電嗎?" 她問。</p>
<p>He wasn't. He often saw it at home when he went to bed. His mother held
his hand and he covered up his head in the clothes, and then he liked
it.<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00274" title="215"><a id="Page_215" title="215"></a></span></p><p>他並不害怕。他經常在上床睡覺時看到它。他的母親握著他的手，他則把頭藏在衣服裡，然後他就喜歡上了這種感覺。</p>
<p>The girl took the wee, fat hand again, and the little feet toddled on.</p><p>那個女孩再次抓住那個小小的、胖嘟嘟的手，小腳步扭扭捏捏地繼續走著。</p>
<p>After vain efforts to snatch a kiss, which were defeated by a proper
withdrawal of the manly head in the cocked hat, the girl with the
feathers and the doll's face left him in the Via due Macelli under a
bright electric lamp that hung over the door of a café-chantant.</p><p>經過徒勞的努力想要搶去一個吻，但被一個頂著鳥窩帽的男性的適當後退所挫敗，帶羽毛和娃娃臉的女孩在Via due Macelli的一個亮著電燈的咖啡酒吧門口將他留下。</p>
<p>Joseph knew then that he was not far from Donna Roma's, and he began to
think of what he would do when he got there. If the big porter at the
door tried to stop him he would say, "I'm a little Roman boy," and the
man would <i>have</i> to let him go up. Then he would take charge of the
hall, and when he had not to open the door he would play with the dog,
and sometimes with Donna Roma.</p><p>約瑟夫知道他現在離唐娜羅馬不遠了，他開始想他到了那裡會做些什麼。如果門口的大門衛試圖阻擋他，他會說，“我是一個小羅馬男孩”，那麼那個人就會讓他上去。然後他將負責看門，當他不用開門時他會和狗玩，有時候也會和唐娜羅馬玩。</p>
<p>With sound practical sense he thought of his wages. Would it be a penny
a week or twopence? He thought it would be twopence. Men didn't work for
nothing nowadays. He had heard his father say so.</p><p>他實際地考慮到他的工資。會是每週一便士還是兩便士呢？他認為會是兩便士。如今，人們不會無償工作。他聽他父親這樣說過。</p>
<p>Then he remembered his mother, and his lip began to drop. But it rose
again when he told himself that of course she would come every night to
put him to bed as usual. "Good-night, mamma! See you in the morning," he
would say, and when he opened his eyes it would be to-morrow.</p><p>然後他想起了他的母親，他的嘴唇開始下垂。但當他告訴自己，她肯定會像往常一樣，每晚來給他臥床，他的嘴唇又重新升起。“晚安，媽媽！明早見，”他會說。當他張開眼睛時，那就是明天了。</p>
<p>He was feeling sleepy now, and do what he would he could hardly keep his
eyes from closing. But he was in the Piazza di Spagna by this time, and
his little feet in their top-boots began to patter up the snowy steps.</p><p>他現在感到想睡覺了，無論他做什麼都幾乎無法讓他的眼睛不閉上。但是他此時已經在西班牙廣場，他的小腳穿著長靴開始在雪中的階梯上蹣跚而上。</p>
<p>There are three principal landings to the Spanish Steps, and the great
little man of seven had reached the second of them when a noise in the
streets below made him stop and turn his head.</p><p>有三個主要的登陸點通往西班牙階梯，當這個七歲的偉大細小男子到達其中的第二個時，街下的噪音使他停下來並轉過頭來。</p>
<p>A great crowd, carrying hundreds of torches, was marching into the
piazza. They were singing, shouting, and blowing whistles and trumpets.
It was like <i>Befana</i> in the Piazza Navona, and when Joseph blinked his
eyes he almost thought he was at home in bed.</p><p>一大群人，手持數百支火把，正走進廣場。他們唱歌、喊叫、吹口哨和喇叭。這就像在納沃納廣場的貝法娜節，當約瑟夫眨眼睛時，他幾乎以為自己在家中的床上。www</p>
<p>All at once silence—then soldiers—then a jump all over his body like
that which came to him when he was falling asleep—then a sense of
something warm—then a buzzing noise—then a boom like that of the gun
of St. Angelo at dinner-time ... then a deep, familiar voice calling and
calling to him, and his eyes opened for a moment and saw his father's
face.<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00275" title="216"><a id="Page_216" title="216"></a></span></p><p>"突然間的寂靜－然後是士兵們－然後像在即將入睡時的一種全身跳躍感覺－然後是某種暖烘烘的感覺－再然後是嗡嗡的聲音－再然後是像聖安吉洛午餐時的槍炮一樣的轟鳴聲...然後是一個深沉且熟悉的聲音又叫又叫，他的眼睛瞪大了片刻，看到了他父親的臉龐。"
</p>
<p>"Good-night, papa! So sleepy! See you in the morning!"</p><p>"晚安，爸爸！好睏！明早見！"</p>
<p>And then nothing more.</p><p>然後就沒有了。</p>
<hr class="minor"/>
<p>While Elena waited for Bruno's return with little Joseph, she went up
and downstairs between David Rossi's apartment and her own on all manner
of invented errands. Meantime she tried to keep down her anxiety by
keeping up her anger. Joseph was so worrisome. When he came home he
would have to be whipped and sent to bed without his supper. It was true
his <i>verdura</i> was already on the stove, but he must not be allowed to
touch it. You really must be strict with children. They would like you
all the better for it when they grew up to be men and women.</p><p>`當埃琳娜等待布魯諾帶著小約瑟夫回來的時候，她為了各種捏造的差事在大衛·羅西的公寓和她自己的家裡上上下下。與此同時，她試圖以維持她的憤怒來壓抑她的焦慮。約瑟夫實在是令人煩惱。當他回家時，他必須被打一頓並且不讓他吃晚飯才能上床。確實他的蔬菜已經在爐子上了，但他不能被允許去觸碰它。你真的必須對孩子們嚴格一些。他們長大成為男人和女人的時候，會更喜歡你。`
</p>
<p>But every moment broke down this brave severity, until the desire to
punish Joseph for his disobedience was all gone. She stood at the head
of the stairs and listened for his voice and his little pattering feet.
If she had heard them, her anxious expression would have given way to a
cross look and she would have scolded both father and son all the way up
to bed. But they did not come, and she turned to the dining-room with a
downcast face.</p><p>`但是每一瞬間都使這勇敢的嚴厲瓦解，直到懲罰約瑟夫因他的不服從的願望全部消失。她站在樓梯頂部，傾聽他的聲音和他的小腳步聲。如果她聽到了，她的焦慮表情會變成生氣的樣子，一路把父子兩人罵到床上。但是他們沒有來，她失望地回到餐廳。`</p>
<p>"Where can the boy be? If I could only have him back! I will never let
him out of my sight again. Never!"</p><p>"那個男孩在哪裡呢？只要能讓他回來！我再也不讓他離開我的視線。再也不！"</p>
<p>David Rossi, who was walking in the sitting-room to calm his nerves
after a trying time, tried to comfort her. It would be all right. Depend
upon it, Joseph had gone up to Donna Roma's. She was to remember what
Bruno told them on Sunday. "The little Roman boy." Joseph had thought of
nothing else for three days, and this being his birthday....</p><p>"大衛·羅西在客廳裡走來走去，試圖平息自己經歷了艱難時光後的緊張情緒，他試圖安慰她。一切都會好的。可以肯定的是，約瑟夫去了唐納·羅馬的地方。她要記住布魯諾在週日告訴他們的話，"那個小羅馬男孩"。過去三天，約瑟夫只想到這個，而今天又剛好是他的生日...."</p>
<p>"You think so? You really think...."</p><p>"你這麼認為？你真的認為...."</p>
<p>"I'm sure of it. Bruno will be back presently, carrying Joseph on his
back. Or perhaps Donna Roma will send the boy home in the carriage, and
the great little man will come upstairs like the Mayor. Meantime she has
kept him to play with, and...."</p><p>"我確定。Bruno將很快回來，背著Joseph在背上。或者Donna Roma會讓男孩坐車回家，然後那位偉大的小男人會像市長一樣走上樓。與此同時，她讓他留下來和她一起玩，而且...."</p>
<p>"Yes, that must be it," said Elena, with shining eyes. "The Signorina
must have kept him to play with! He must be playing now with the
Signorina!"</p><p>"對，一定是這樣的，"Elena眼裡閃爍著亮光說道。"小姐一定是留他來玩的！他現在一定是正在和小姐玩耍呢！"</p>
<p>At that moment through the open door there came the sound of a heavy
tread on the stairs, mingled with various voices. Elena's shining face
suddenly clouded, and Rossi,<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00276" title="217"><a id="Page_217" title="217"></a></span> who read her thought, went out on to the
landing. Bruno was coming up the staircase with something in his arms,
and behind him were the Garibaldian and his old wife and a line of
strangers.</p><p>在那一刻，開著的門外傳來了重重的腳步聲，夾雜著各種聲音。艾琳娜的臉上原本光彩照人，忽然變得陰沉下來，羅西看出了她的心思，走出去到了走廊上。布魯諾正帶著某物走上樓梯，他後面是加里波第的老人和他的老婆，以及一排陌生人。</p>
<p>Rossi ran down two flights of stairs and met them. He saw everything as
by a flash of lightning. The boy lay in his father's arms. He was white
and cold, with his head fallen back, and his hair matted with flakes of
snow. His gay coat was open, and his little stained shirt was torn out
at the breast. A stranger behind was carrying the cocked hat and mace.</p><p>羅西跑下兩層樓梯與他們碰面。猶如閃電般看清了一切。男孩白色冰冷的身體躺在父親的懷裡，頭後仰著，頭髮上沾滿了雪花。他色彩鮮艷的外套敞開，小小的污漬襯衫在胸口處撕裂開來。一名陌生人在後面拿著翹帽和權杖。</p>
<p>Elena, who was at the head of the stairs by this time, was screaming.</p><p>此時的Elena已在樓梯頂端，她正在尖叫。</p>
<p>"Keep her away, sir," said Bruno. The poor fellow was trying to be brave
and strong, but his voice was like a voice from the other side of an
abyss.</p><p>"請把她帶走，先生，"布魯諾說。這窮困的小傢伙試圖表現得勇敢和堅強，但他的聲音就像來自深淵的另一邊。</p>
<p>They took the boy into the dining-room, and laid him on a sofa. There
was no keeping the mother back. She forced her way through and laid hold
of the child.</p><p>他們把男孩帶到餐廳，並將他放在沙發上。無法阻止母親的衝動，她強行進入並抓住了孩子。</p>
<p>"Get away, he's mine," she cried fiercely.</p><p>"快走開，他是我的，"她猛烈地哭喊。</p>
<p>And then she dropped on her knees before the boy, threw her arms about
him and called on him by his name.</p><p>於是她跪在男孩面前，環抱住他，並叫他的名字。</p>
<p>"Joseph! Speak to me! Open your eyes and speak!... What have you been
doing with my child? He is ill. Why don't you send for a doctor? Don't
stand there like fools. Go for a doctor, I tell you ... Joseph! Only a
word!... Have you carried him home without his hat on? And it's snowing
too! He'll get his death of cold ... what's this? Blood on his shirt?
And a wound? Look at this red spot. Have they shot him? No, no, it's
impossible! A child! Joseph! Joseph! Speak to me!... Yes, his heart is
beating." She was pressing her ear to the boy's breast. "Or is it only
the beating in my head? Oh, where is the doctor? Why don't you send for
him?"</p><p>"約瑟夫！和我說話！張開你的眼睛和我說話！你和我的孩子做了什麼？他病了。你為什麼不去找醫生？不要站在那裡像傻瓜。我告訴你去找醫生……約瑟夫！只需要一個字！你是不是把他帶回家沒有帽子？而且還在下雪！他會凍死的……這是什麼？他的襯衫上有血？還有傷口？看看這個紅點。他們開槍打他了嗎？不，不，這不可能！一個孩子！約瑟夫！約瑟夫！和我說話！是的，他的心還在跳。”她把耳朵貼在男孩的胸口。“還是只有我腦袋裡有心跳？哦，醫生在哪裡？你們為什麼不去找他？”</p>
<p>They could not tell her that it was useless, that a doctor had seen the
child already, and that all was over. All they could do was to stand
round her with awe in their faces. She understood them without words.
Her hair fell from its knot, and her eyes began to blaze like the eyes
of a maniac.</p><p>他們無法告訴她這是無用的，一位醫生已經看過這個孩子了，一切都結束了。他們能做的只是帶著恐懼的表情站在她周圍。她無需言語就能理解他們。她的頭髮從結中垂落，她的眼睛開始像瘋子的眼睛一樣燃燒。</p>
<p>"They've killed my child!" she cried. "He's dead! My little boy is dead!
Only seven, and it was his birthday! O God! My child! What had he done
that they should kill him?"<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00277" title="218"><a id="Page_218" title="218"></a></span></p><p>"他們殺了我的孩子！"她哭喊道。"他死了！我的小男孩死了！
他只有七歲，正好是他的生日！哦，上帝！我的孩子！他做了什麼讓他們必須殺他？"</p>
<p>And then Bruno, who was standing by with a wild lustre in his eyes, said
between his teeth, "Done? Done nothing but live under a Government of
murderers and assassins."</p><p>然後，布魯諾站在一旁，眼中閃爍著狂烈的光澤，他緊緊咬著牙說，“完成了？除了生活在一個由兇手和刺客組成的政府之下，我什麼都沒做。”</p>
<p>The room filled with people. Neighbours who had never before set foot in
the rooms came in without fear, for death was among them. They stood
silent for the most part, only handing round the table the little cocked
hat and the mace, with sighs and deep breathing. But some one speaking
to Rossi told him what had happened. It was at the Spanish Steps. The
delegate gave the word, and the Carabineers fired over the people's
heads. But they hit the child and made him cold. His little heart had
burst.</p><p>該房間充滿了人。以前從未踏入這些房間的鄰居們毫無恐懼地進來，因為死亡在他們之中。他們大部分都保持沉默，只是傳遞著小翹帽和權杖，並帶著嘆息和深呼吸。但是有人對羅西（Rossi）說出了發生的事情。這是在西班牙階梯（Spanish Steps）。代表下令，憲兵向人群的頭上開槍。但他們打中了小孩，讓他變得冷靜。他的小心臟已經爆裂了。</p>
<p>"And I was going to whip him," said Elena. "Not a minute before I was
talking about the rod, and not giving him his supper. O God! I can never
forgive myself."</p><p>"而我正準備打他，"艾琳娜說。"就在一分鐘前，我還在說要用棍子打他，並且不給他晚餐。哦，上帝！我永遠都不能原諒自己。"</p>
<p>And then the blessed tears came and she wept bitterly.</p><p>然後，祝福的淚水來了，她悲痛地哭泣。</p>
<p>David Rossi put his arms about her, and her head fell on his breast. All
barriers were broken down, and she clung to him and cried.</p><p>"大衛·羅西抱著她，她的頭靠在他的胸口。所有阻礙都被打破了，她緊緊地抱著他哭泣。"</p>
<p>Just then cries came from the piazza—"Hurrah for the Revolution!" and
"Down with the destroyers of the people!"—the woolly tones of voices
shouting in the snow. Somebody on the stairs explained that a young man
was going about waving a bloody handkerchief, and that the sight of it
was exasperating the people to frenzy. Women were marching through the
streets, and the entire city was on the point of insurrection.</p><p>就在那時,廣場上傳來了呼喊聲--"革命萬歲!"和"打倒人民的破壞者!"--這是在雪地裡發出的嘶啞聲音。樓梯上有人解釋說，有一個年輕人在揮舞著一條血跡斑斑的手帕，人們看到這情景都被激怒到瘋狂。女人們正在街頭遊行，整個城市都快要發生暴動了。</p>
<p>In the dining-room the stricken ones still stood around the couch.
Presently there was a sound of singing outside. A great crowd was coming
into the piazza, singing the Garibaldi Hymn. Bruno heard it, and the
wild lustre in his eyes gave place to a look of savage joy. An awful
oath burst from his lips, and he ran out of the house. At the next
moment he was heard in the street, singing in a thundering voice:</p><p>在餐廳裡，受驚嚇的人們仍然站在沙發周圍。
隨後，外面傳來了歌唱的聲音。一大群人唱著加里波第頌歌走進了廣場。布魯諾聽到這一點，他眼中的野性閃爍讓位於一種野蠻的喜悅。他嘴裡爆出了一聲可怕的誓言，然後跑出了房子。下一刻，他在街上被聽到在雷霆之聲中唱歌:</p>
<p style="margin-left: 2em;">
"The tombs are uncovered,<br/>
The dead arise,<br/>
The martyrs are rising<br/>
Before our eyes."<br/>
</p><p style="margin-left: 2em;">"墓穴被揭開，
死者復活，
烈士正在起身
在我們眼前。"</p>
<p>The old Garibaldian threw up his head like a warhorse at the call of
battle, and his rickety limbs were going towards the door.</p><p>那位年老的加里波第戰士聽到戰鬥的號召就像戰馬一樣抬起頭，他搖晃的四肢正向門口移動。</p>
<p>"Stay here, father," said Rossi, and the old man obeyed him.<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00278" title="219"><a id="Page_219" title="219"></a></span></p><p>"留在這裡，父親," Rossi說，老人聽從了他的話。</p>
<p>Elena was quieter by this time. She was sitting by the child and
stroking his little icy hand.</p><p>這時候的伊琳娜變得更安靜了。她坐在孩子身邊，撫摸著他那隻冰冷的小手。</p>
<p>David Rossi, who had hardly spoken, went into his bedroom. His lips were
tightly pressed together, his eyes were bloodshot, and his breath was
labouring hard in his heaving breast.</p><p>"大衛·羅西幾乎一言不發地走進了他的臥室。他的嘴唇緊緊地壓在一起，眼睛充血，而他的呼吸在他起伏的胸膛中努力地喘息。"</p>
<p>He took up his dagger paper-knife, tried its point on his palm with two
or three reckless thrusts and threw it back on the desk. Then he went
down on his hands and knees and rummaged among the newspapers lying in
heaps under the window. At last he found what he looked for. It was the
six-chambered revolver which had been sent to him as a present. "I'll
kill the man like a dog," he thought.</p><p>他拿起他的匕首形狀的紙刀，在自己的手掌上試了兩三下其尖端，然後把它扔回書桌。接著，他跪在地上，四處翻找堆積在窗戶下的報紙。最後，他找到了他所要找的東西。那是一把送給他的禮物，六個子彈的左輪手槍。"我會像對待狗一樣殺了那個男人，"他想。</p>
<p>He loaded the revolver, put it in his breast-pocket, went back to the
sitting-room, and made ready to go out.</p><p>他裝上左輪手槍，放進他的胸前口袋，回到客廳，並準備出門。</p>
<h3 id="pgepubid00279">X</h3>
<p>Ten was striking on the different clocks of the city. Felice had lit the
stove in the boudoir and the wood was burning in fitful blue and red
flames. There was no other light in the room, and Roma lay with her body
on the floor, and her face buried in the couch.</p><p>城市的各個鐘錶敲響了十點。Felice已經在妝間點燃了火爐，木柴在間歇的藍色和紅色火焰中燃燒。房間裡沒有其他光源，Roma躺在地板上，臉埋在沙發中。</p>
<p>The world outside was full of fearful and unusual noises. Snow was still
falling, and the voices heard through it had a peculiar sound of
sobbing. The soft rolling of thunder came from a long way off, like the
boom of a slow wave on a distant beach. At intervals there was the
crackle of musketry, like the noise of rockets sent up in the night, and
sometimes there were pitiful cries, smothered by the unreverberating
snow, like the cries of a drowning man on a foundering ship at sea.</p><p>"外面的世界充滿了恐怖和異常的聲響。雪仍在下，透過它聽到的聲音有一種獨特的啜泣感。遙遠處傳來柔和的雷鳴，就像遠處海灘上緩慢的波浪給人的轟鳴聲。間或會有火槍的爆裂聲，就如夜晚升起的煙火的聲響，有時也能聽到可憐的呼救聲，被無迴音的雪所淹沒，就像海上的沈船上一個正在溺水的人的呼救聲。"</p>
<p>Roma, face downward, heard these sounds in the lapses of a terrible
memory. She was seeing, as in a nightmare, the incidents of a night that
was hardly six weeks past. One by one the facts flashed back upon her
with a burning sense of shame, and she felt herself to be a sinner and a
criminal.</p><p>羅馬面朝下，聽到這些聲音穿過她可怕的記憶片段。她像夢魘一般再次看到那個只有六個禮拜前的夜晚發生的事情。一個又一個的事實像燃燒般的羞恥感反射在她身上，她覺得自己像個罪人和罪犯。</p>
<p>It was the night of the royal ball at the Quirinal. The blaze of lights,
the glitter of jewels, the brilliant throng of handsome men and lovely
women, the clash of music, the whirl of dancing, and finally the smiles
and compliments of the King. Then going home in the carriage in the
early<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00280" title="220"><a id="Page_220" title="220"></a></span> morning, swathed in furs over her thin white silk, with the
Baron, in his decorations worn diagonally over his white breast, and
through the glass the waning moon, the silent stars, the empty streets.</p><p>那是奎利納爾皇家舞會之夜。璀璨的燈光、閃耀的珠寶、帥氣男士和美麗女性的熱鬧人群，音樂的碰撞，舞蹈的旋轉，最後是國王的微笑和讚美。然後，在凌晨乘馬車回家，在她的薄白絲綢上包裹著皮草，男爵帶著他的勳章斜懸在他的白色胸膛上，透過車窗看著逐漸消退的月亮，寂靜的星星，空蕩蕩的街道。</p>
<p>Then this room, this couch, sinking down on it, very tired, with eyes
smiling and half closed, and nearly gone already into the mists of
sleep. And then the Baron at her feet, pressing his lips to her wrist
where the pulse was beating, kissing her arms and shoulders.... "Oh,
dear! You are mad! I must not listen to you." And then burning words of
love and passion: "My wife! My wife that is to be!" And then the call of
her aunt from the adjoining chamber, "Roma!"</p><p>然後是這個房間，這張沙發，她疲倦地沉下去，眼睛帶著笑意，半閉著，幾乎已經進入睡眠的迷霧中。然後男爵在她的腳前，把他的嘴唇壓在她的手腕上，那裡的脈搏正在跳動，親吻她的手臂和肩膀.... "哦，親愛的！你瘋了！我不能聽你的話。"然後熱烈的愛情和激情的言葉: "我的妻子！我的未來的妻子！"然後從旁邊的房間傳來她阿姨的呼喚，"羅瑪！"</p>
<p>The sobbing sounds from outside broke in on Roma's nightmare, and when
the chain of memory linked on again it was morning in her vision, and
the Countess was comforting her in a whimpering voice:</p><p>"來自外面的哭泣聲打斷了羅馬的噩夢，當記憶的鏈條再次連線時，她的視覺中已經是早晨，而伯爵夫人正在用呼哼的聲音安慰她："</p>
<p>"After all, God is merciful, and things that happen to everybody can be
atoned for by prayer and penance. Besides, the Baron is a man of honour,
and the poor maniac cannot last much longer."</p><p>"畢竟，上帝是仁慈的，每個人遇到的事情都可以透過禱告和懺悔得到贖罪。此外，男爵是一個有榮譽的人，那可憐的瘋子也無法再繼續下去了。"</p>
<p>The sobbing sounds in the snow, the cries far away, the crackle of the
rifle-shots, the rumble of the thunder broke in again, and the elements
outside seemed to whirl round her in the tempest of her trouble. For a
moment she lifted her head and heard voices in the next room.</p><p>"在雪中的哭泣聲，遠處的喊叫，來自步槍的啪啪聲，雷聲再次響起，外面的元素似乎在她困憂的暴風中旋轉。她稍微抬起頭，聽到了隔壁房間的語音。"</p>
<p>The Baron was still there, and from time to time, as he wrote his
despatches, messengers came to take them away, to bring replies, and to
deliver the latest news of the night. The populace had risen in all
parts of the city, and the soldiers had charged them. There had been
several misadventures and many arrests. The large house of detention by
St. Andrea delle Frate was already full, but the people continued to
hold out. They had disconnected the gas at the gasometer and cut the
electric wires, and the city was plunged in darkness.</p><p>男爵仍在那裡，他在寫他的通訊時，不時有使者來取走他們，帶來回答，並傳達夜間的最新消息。市民在城市的各個地方起義，士兵們向他們衝鋒打擊。已經有幾起意外和許多逮捕。位於聖安德烈亞·德爾·弗拉特的大型拘留所已經滿員，但人們仍繼續堅持。他們已經斷開了氣體儲存罐的煤氣，並切斷了電線，全城都陷入了黑暗。</p>
<p>"Tell the electric light company to turn on the flashlight from Monte
Mario," said the Baron.</p><p>"請告訴電力公司從Monte Mario開啟手電筒,"男爵說。</p>
<p>And when the voices ceased in the drawing-room there came the deadened
sound of the Countess's frightened treble behind the wall.</p><p>當客廳裡的聲音停止時，牆後就傳來了伯爵夫人驚恐的尖聲，聲音卻被壓得沉悶。</p>
<p>"O Holy Virgin, full of grace, save me! It would be a sin to let me die
to-night! Holy Virgin, see! I have given<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00281" title="221"><a id="Page_221" title="221"></a></span> thee two more candles. Art
thou not satisfied? Save me from murder, Mother of God."</p><p>"哦，充滿恩典的聖母，救我！讓我今晚死去將是一個罪惡！ 聖母，看！我已經給妳多供奉了兩支蠟燭。 妳不滿意嗎？母親上帝，救我脫離謀殺。"</p>
<p>Roma saw another phase of her vision. It was filled with a new face,
which made her at once happy and unhappy, proud and ashamed. Hitherto
the only condition on which she had been able to live with the secret of
her life was that she should think nothing about it. Now she was
compelled to think, and she was asking herself if it was her duty to
confess.</p><p>"羅馬看到她的視野中出現了另一個階段。新的面孔出現在視線中，讓她同時感到快樂與不快，驕傲與羞愧。此前，她能與她生活的秘密共存的唯一條件是她不應該去想它。現在她被迫去思考，她正在問自己是否有義務去坦白。"</p>
<p>Before she married David Rossi she must tell him everything. She saw
herself trying to do so. He was looking vacantly before him with the
deep furrow that came to his forehead when he was strongly moved. She
had sobbed out her story, telling all, excusing nothing, and now she was
waiting for him to speak. He would take her side, he would tell her she
had been more sinned against than sinning, that she had been young and
alone at the mercy of an evil man, and that her will had not consented.</p><p>在她與大衛·羅西結婚之前，她必須把一切都告訴他。她眼中閃現出自己努力說出真相的樣子。他呆呆地望著前方，聽到她的故事時，他的額頭皺成了深深的溝壑。她哭訴著，全盤托出，沒有留下任何藉口，現在她在等待他的回應。他會站在她這一邊的，他會告訴她她是受害者，尋求慰藉，他會說她當時年輕而孤獨，處於一個邪惡的男人的威脅之下，而她其實並未心甘情願。</p>
<p>"No, no! It is impossible!" she cried aloud, and, startled by the sound
of her voice, the Baron came into the room.</p><p>"不，不！這是不可能的！"她大聲哭叫，她的聲音驚動了男爵，男爵進入了房間。</p>
<p>"My dear child!" he said, and he picked her up from the floor. "I shall
never be able to forgive myself if you take things like this. Every tear
you shed will burn my flesh like fire. Come now, dry these beautiful
eyes and be calm."</p><p>"我的寶貝！"他說著，從地板上把她抱起來。"如果你像這樣帶著傷心，我將永遠無法原諒自己。你流下的每一滴眼淚都會像火一樣燃燒我的肉體。現在，擦乾這雙美麗的眼睛，保持冷靜。"</p>
<p>She did not listen to him, but leaning on the stove and fingering with
one hand the frame of her father's picture which hung above it, she
said:</p><p>她沒有聽他的話，而是靠在爐子上，一隻手玩弄著掛在其上的父親照片的框架，她說:</p>
<p>"I see now that happiness was not for me. There must be some punishment
for every sin, however little one has been guilty of it, and perhaps
this is God's way of asking for an expiation. It is very, very hard ...
it seems more than I deserve ... and heavier than I can bear ... but
there is no help for it."</p><p>"我現在看到，幸福不是為我而來。每一個罪行，無論我有多麼的罪愧，都需要一些懲罰，或許，這就是上帝要求我們作出贖罪的方式。這個過程非常，非常艱難……它似乎超出了我所應得的……而且比我能忍受的更重……但是，沒有其他的出路。"</p>
<p>The tears she brushed from her eyes seemed to be gathering in her
throat.</p><p>她擦去眼淚的同時，感覺它們像是堆積在她的喉嚴中。</p>
<p>"The bitterest part of it is that I must make others suffer for it also.
He must suffer who has loved and trusted me. His love for me, my love
for him, this has been dragging him down since the first day I knew him.
Perhaps he is in prison by this time."</p><p>"對我來說最苦澀的部分是，我必須讓其他人也為此受苦。
那些曾愛我，信任我的人必須承受痛苦。他對我的愛，我的愛，從我認識他的第一天開始就一直在拖他下水。
也許他現在已經在監獄裡了。"</p>
<p>Sobs interrupted her for a moment, and in a caressing tone the Baron
tried to comfort her. It was natural that she should feel troubled, very
natural and very womanly. But<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00282" title="222"><a id="Page_222" title="222"></a></span> time was the great remedy for human ills.
It would heal everything.</p><p>她的抽泣打斷了片刻的寂靜，男爵以撫慰的語除錯圖安慰她。她感到煩惱是理所當然的，非常理所當然，也非常女性化。但時間卻是治療人間疾病的偉大藥物，它將治癒所有事物。</p>
<p>"Roma, you have wounded and humiliated and insulted me, but you are the
only woman in the world I would give one straw to have. I will make you
the wife of the Dictator of Italy, and when all these troubles are over
and you are great, and have forgotten what has taken place...."</p><p>"羅馬，你傷害我，羞辱我，侮辱我，但你是我唯一願意付出一切努力去得到的女人。我會讓你成為義大利獨裁者的妻子，當所有這些麻煩過去，你變得偉大，並忘記了所發生的一切...."</p>
<p>"I can never forget and I don't want to be great. I only want to be
good. Leave me!"</p><p>"我永遠不會忘記，而我不希望成為偉大的人，我只想做個好人。讓我獨處!"</p>
<p>"You <i>are</i> good. You have always been good. What happened was my fault
alone, and you have nothing to reproach yourself with. I found you
growing up to be a great woman, and passing out of my legal control,
while I was bound down to a poor, helpless, living corpse. Some day you
would meet a younger, freer man, and you would be lost to me for good.
Wasn't it human to try to hold you to me until the time came when I
could claim you altogether? And if meanwhile this man has
interposed...."</p><p>"你是好的。你始終是好的。發生的一切都是我自己的錯，你無需自我責怪。我發現你在成長為一位偉大的女性，並且脫離了我法律上的控制，而我卻被束縛在一個可悲，無助，還活著的屍體裡。總有一天，你會遇到一個更年輕，更自由的男人，並且你將永遠失去我。嘗試在我可以完全要求你的時候將你留在我身邊的想法，難道不是人之常情嗎？如果在此期間這個男人已經插手了……"</p>
<p>He pointed to the bust on the pedestal. She looked up at it, and then
dropped her head.</p><p>他指向座落在基座上的半身雕像。她抬頭看了看它，然後低下了頭。</p>
<p>"Put the man out of your mind, my dear, and all will be well. Probably
he is in the hands of the authorities already. God grant it may be so!
No trouble about his arrest this time! It cannot be complicated by the
danger of scandal. Nobody else's name and character will be concerned in
it. And if it serves to dispose of a dangerous man and a subversive
politician, I am willing to let everything else sleep."</p><p>"把那個男人從你的腦海中趕出去，親愛的，一切都會好起來的。他可能已經落入當局的手中。但願是這樣！這次他的逮捕不會引起任何麻煩！這不可能會引發醜聞的危險。沒有其他人的名字和品格會被牽涉其中。如果這能夠消除一個危險的男人和一個顛覆性的政治家，我願意讓其他一切都睡覺。"</p>
<p>He paused a moment, and then added in his most incisive accents: "But if
not, the law must take its course, and Roma Roselli must complete what
Roma Volonna has begun."</p><p>他停頓了一會兒，然後用他最尖銳的語調補充說："但是如果不這樣，法律必須繼續執行，羅馬·羅塞利必須完成羅馬·沃隆納已經開始的事情。"</p>
<p>At that moment Felice's dark form stood against the light in the open
door.</p><p>在那一刻，菲利斯的黑暗形象在開啟的門口頂著光線站立。</p>
<p>"Commendatore Angelelli and Charles Minghelli, Excellency."</p><p>"Commendatore Angelelli 和 Charles Minghelli，閣下。"</p>
<p>As the Baron went back to the drawing-room Roma returned to the window.
Scales of snow adhered to the glass, and it was difficult to see
anything outside. But the masses of shadow and sheets of light were
gone, and the city lay in utter darkness. The sobbing sounds, the
crackle of musketry and the rumble of thunder were all gone, and the air
was empty and void.</p><p>當男爵返回繪畫室時，羅馬又回到窗邊。窗戶上粘著的雪片，讓外面的事情難以看清。但是，影子的塊塊和光線的片片都已消失，城市陷入了一片漆黑。嗚咽的聲音、槍聲的劈啪聲以及雷聲的隆隆聲都已消失，空氣顯得空洞而寂靜。</p>
<p>At one moment there was a soft patter as of a flock<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00283" title="223"><a id="Page_223" title="223"></a></span> of sheep passing
under the window in the darkness. It was a company of riflemen going at
a quick march over the snow, with torches and lanterns.</p><p>在一個瞬間，窗外傳來群羊踏雪輕輕地聲響。那是一群攜帶著火炬和燈籠，快速行進在雪地上的步槍手的隊伍。</p>
<p>Voices came from the next room, and Roma found herself listening.</p><p>來自隔壁房間的聲音，羅馬發現自己在聆聽。</p>
<p>"Apparently the insurrection is suppressed, your Excellency."</p><p>"顯然，這次的起義已經被鎮壓下去了，閣下。"</p>
<p>"I congratulate you."</p><p>"我祝賀你。"</p>
<p>"The soldiers are patrolling the streets, and all is quiet."</p><p>"士兵正在巡邏街道，一切都很安靜。"</p>
<p>"Good!"</p><p>"好!"</p>
<p>"We have some hundreds of rioters in the house of detention, and the
military courts will begin to sit to-morrow morning."</p><p>"我們有幾百名暴動者在拘留所內，軍事法庭將於明早開始審理。"</p>
<p>"Excellent!"</p><p>"極好！"</p>
<p>"The misadventures have been few and unimportant, the child I spoke of
being the only one killed."</p><p>"這些不幸的事件少而且無關緊要，我提到的那個孩子是唯一死去的。"</p>
<p>"You have discovered whose child it was?"</p><p>"你已經發現這是誰的孩子了嗎？"</p>
<p>"Yes. Unluckily...."</p><p>"是的。不幸地...."</p>
<p>Roma felt dizzy. A thought had flashed upon her.</p><p>"羅馬感到頭昏眼花。一個念頭瞬間閃過她的腦海。"</p>
<p>"It is the child of Donna Roma's man, Bruno Rocco, and apparently...."</p><p>"這是Donna Roma的男人Bruno Rocco的孩子，顯然...."</p>
<p>A choking cry rang through the room. Was it herself who made it?</p><p>一聲窒息的哭泣在房間中回蕩。是她自己發出的嗎？</p>
<p>"Go on, Commendatore. Apparently...."</p><p>"繼續吧，Commendatore。看來...."</p>
<p>"The child was dressed in some carnival costume, and apparently he was
on his way to this house."</p><p>"這個孩子穿著某種狂歡節的服裝，看來他正在路上來這所房子。"</p>
<p>Roma's dizziness increased, and to save herself from falling she caught
at a side-table that stood under the bust.</p><p>"羅馬的頭暈感加重了，為了不摔倒，她抓住了立在半身像下的邊桌。"</p>
<p>On this table were some sculptor's tools—a chisel and a small mallet,
with which she had been working.</p><p>在這張桌子上放著一些雕塑家的工具－一把雕刻刀和一個小槌子，她一直在用它們工作。</p>
<p>There was an interval in which the voices were deadened and confused.
Then they became clear and sharp as before.</p><p>有一段時間，聲音變得低沉且混亂。然後它們又變得像以前一樣清晰和銳利。</p>
<p>"But the most important fact you have not yet given me. I trust you are
only saving it up for the last. The Deputy Rossi is arrested?"</p><p>"但你還沒給我最重要的事實。我相信你只是留到最後才說。羅西副手被逮捕了嗎？"</p>
<p>"Unfortunately ... Excellency...."</p><p>"不幸的是...閣下..."</p>
<p>"No?"</p><p>"不是嗎？"</p>
<p>"He left home immediately after the outbreak and has not been seen
since. Presently the flashlight will be turned on by a separate battery
from Monte Mario, and every corner of the city shall be searched. But we
fear he is gone."</p><p>"他在疫情爆發後立即離開了家，從此再也沒有露面。目前，蒙特馬里奧的獨立電池將開啟手電筒，城市的每個角落都將被搜尋。但我們害怕他已經離去。"</p>
<p>"Gone?"</p><p>"不見了?"</p>
<p>"Perhaps by the train that left just before the signal."<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00284" title="224"><a id="Page_224" title="224"></a></span></p><p>"也許是在訊號之前剛剛離開的火車。"</p>
<p>Roma felt a cry rising to her throat again, but she put up her hand to
keep it down.</p><p>羅馬感覺自己的喉嚨又快要哭出來了，但她用手掩蓋住，不讓它流出來。</p>
<p>"No matter! Commendatore, send telegrams after the train to all stations
up to the frontier, with orders that nobody is to alight until every
carriage has been overhauled. Minghelli, go to the Consulta immediately,
and ask the Minister of Foreign Affairs to despatch a portrait of Rossi
to every foreign Government."</p><p>"無論如何！Commendatore，請向所有火車站傳送電報，命令到達邊界前，每個車廂都不允許有人下車，直到所有的車廂都被檢查過。Minghelli，立即去Consulta，請外交部長將羅西的肖像傳送給每個外國政府。"</p>
<p>"But no portrait exists, Excellency. It was a difficulty I found in
England."</p><p>"但是，閣下，並沒有這個人物的畫像存在。這是我在英格蘭遇到的困難。"</p>
<p>"Yes, there is a portrait. Come this way."</p><p>"對，這裡有一幅肖像畫。請跟我來。"</p>
<p>Roma felt the room going round as the Baron came into it and switched on
the light.</p><p>當男爵走進房間並開啟燈時，羅馬感到房間在旋轉。</p>
<p>"<i>There</i> is the only portrait of the illustrious Deputy, and our hostess
will lend it to be photographed."</p><p>"這是唯一的傑出代表人物的肖像，而我們的女主人將把它借出來拍攝照片。"</p>
<p>"Never!" said Roma, and taking up the mallet she struck the bust a heavy
blow, and it fell in fragments to the floor.</p><p>“絕不！”羅馬說著，她拿起槌子猛烈地敲打那塊雕像，結果它碎裂成片，掉在了地上。</p>
<p>Half-an-hour afterwards Roma was sitting amid the wreck of her work when
the Baron, wearing his fur-lined overcoat and pulling on his gloves,
came into the boudoir.</p><p>半小時後，羅馬坐在她工作的廢墟中，當男爵穿著他的毛皮內地大衣並戴著手套走進她的化妝室。</p>
<p>"I am compelled," he said, "to inflict my presence upon you for a moment
longer in order to tell you what my attitude in the future is to be, and
what feelings are to guide you. I shall continue to think of you as my
wife according to the law of nature, and of the man who has come between
us as your lover. I will not give you up to him, whatever happens; and
if he tries to take you away, or if you try to go to him, you must be
prepared to find that I offer every resistance. Two passions are now
engaged against the man, and I will not shrink from any course that
seems necessary to subdue either him or you, or both."</p><p>"我被迫,"他說,"再多在你面前多待一會兒，以便告訴你我將來的態度將是什麼，以及將引導你的感情。我將繼續把你當作我的妻子，這是自然法則，並把介入我們之間的那個男人視為你的情人。無論發生什麼，我都不會把你交給他，並且如果他試圖帶你走，或者你試圖去找他，你必須準備好我會提出一切抵抗。現在有兩種激情與那個人相對立，我不會迴避任何看起來必要的方式來制服他或你，或者兩者。"</p>
<p>A moment afterwards she heard the patrol challenging him on the piazza.
Then "Pardon, Excellency," and the soft swish of carriage wheels in the
snow.</p><p>"片刻後，她聽到巡邏隊在露臺上向他發出挑戰。然後是“原諒我，閣下，”和馬車輪子在雪地中輕輕滑過的聲音。"</p>
<h3 id="pgepubid00285">XI</h3>
<p>When Rossi left home he was like a raging madman. He made straight for
the Palazzo Braschi at the other side of the piazza, and going up the
marble staircase on limbs that could scarcely support him, his thoughts
went back in a broken maze to the scene he had left behind.<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00286" title="225"><a id="Page_225" title="225"></a></span></p><p>當羅西離開家時，他就像一個瘋狂的狂人。他直接向廣場另一側的布拉斯基宮殿行去，並且在幾乎無法支撐他身體的四肢上走上大理石樓梯，他的思想以破碎的迷宮回到他所離開的場景。</p>
<p>"Our little boy dead! Dead in his mother's arms! O God! let me meet the
man face to face!... Our innocent darling! The light of our eyes put out
in a moment! Our sweet little Joseph!... Shall there be no retribution?
God forbid! The man who has been the chief cause of this crime shall be
the first to suffer punishment. No use wasting time on the hounds who
executed his orders. They are only delegates of police, and over them is
this Minister of the Interior. He alone is responsible, and he is here!"</p><p>"我們的小男孩死了！死在他媽媽的懷裡！哦，上帝！讓我面對面遇見那個人！…我們無辜的寶貝！一瞬間我們眼睛的光線就熄滅了！我們甜美的小Joseph！…難道不應該有報應嗎？上帝不會讓這樣的事情發生的！主導這種罪行的人將是第一個受到懲罰的人。沒有必要浪費時間去關注那些執行他命令的獵犬。他們只是警察的代表，而控制他們的是這個內政部長。僅有他應該負責，且他就在這裡！"</p>
<p>When he reached the green baize door to the hall, he stopped to wipe
away the perspiration which stood on his forehead although his face was
flecked with snow. The messengers looked scared when he stepped inside,
and they answered his questions with obvious hesitation. The Minister
was not in his cabinet. He had not been there that night. It was
possible the Honourable might find his Excellency at home.</p><p>當他到達通往大廳的綠色桌布門前，他停下來擦拭額頭上的汗水，儘管他的臉上灑滿了雪花。當他走到裡面時，使者們看起來很害怕，他們對他的問題回答得顯然猶豫不決。部長不在他的內閣裡。那一晚他沒有在那裡。尊貴的人可能會在家中找到他的閣下。</p>
<p>Rossi turned on his heel instantly, and went hurriedly downstairs. He
would go to the Palazzo Leone. There was no time to lose. Presently the
man would hide himself in the darkness like a toad under a stone.</p><p>羅西立即轉身，匆忙下樓。他將前往利昂宮。時間不等人。不久，這個人就會像一隻蟾蜍躲在石頭下的黑暗中。
</p>
<p>As he left the Ministry of the Interior he heard the singing of the
Garibaldi Hymn in the distance, and turning into the Corso Victor
Emmanuel, he came upon crowds of people and some noisy and tumultuous
scenes.</p><p>當他離開內政部時，他遠處聽到了Garibaldi Hymn的歌聲，轉身進入了Corso Victor Emmanuel，他遇到了人頭湧湧的人群和一些喧囂和混亂的場景。</p>
<p>One group had broken into a gun-shop and seized rifles and cartridges;
another group had taken possession of two electric tram-cars, and
tumbled them on their sides to make a barricade across the street; and a
third group was tearing up the street itself to use the stones for
missiles. "Our turn now," they were shouting, and there were screams of
delirious laughter.</p><p>一群人闖進槍店，奪取了步槍和子彈；
另一群人佔據了兩輛電車，並將它們側翻以在街上製造路障；
還有一群人正在撬開街道，以便把街磚作為投擲武器。
他們大喊：“現在輪到我們了”，並伴隨著狂喜的尖叫聲。</p>
<p>As Rossi crossed the bridge of St. Angelo the cannon was fired from the
Castle, and he knew that it was meant for a signal. "No matter!" he
thought. "It will be too late when the soldiers arrive."</p><p>當羅西越過聖安吉洛橋時，城堡裡的大炮開始發射。他知道這是一個訊號。"沒關係！"他想。"等到士兵們到達時，就已經太晚了。"</p>
<p>Notwithstanding the tumult in the city the Piazza of St. Peter's was
silent and deserted. Not the sound of a footfall, not the rattle of a
carriage-wheel; only the swish-swish of the fountains, whose waters were
playing in the lamplight through the falling snow, and the echoing
hammer of the clock of the Basilica.<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00287" title="226"><a id="Page_226" title="226"></a></span></p><p>儘管城市中充滿了騷動，但是聖彼得廣場卻寂靜而荒涼。沒有腳步聲，沒有馬車輪的嗡嗡聲；只有噴泉的噗噗聲，它的水在燈光下的雪中嬉戲，還有大教堂鐘聲的回蕩。</p>
<p>The porter of the Palazzo Leone was asleep in his lodge, and Rossi
passed upstairs.</p><p>"Palazzo Leone的門房在他的小屋裡睡覺，Rossi則是上樓去了。"</p>
<p>"I'll bring the man to justice now," he thought. "He imagined we were
only tame cats and would submit to anything. He was wrong. We'll show
him we know how to punish tyrants. Haven't we always done so, we Romans?
He has a sharp tongue for the people, but I have a sharper one here for
him."</p><p>"我現在要將這個人帶到正義面前，"他心想。"他以為我們只是溫順的貓，會接受任何事情。他錯了。我們會讓他知道我們如何懲治暴君。我們羅馬人不是一直都這樣做嗎?他尖酸刻薄的對待人民，但我在這裡有更尖鋭的言辭來對他。"</p>
<p>And he felt for the revolver in his breast-pocket to make certain it was
there.</p><p>他伸手到胸口口袋裡確認手槍還在。</p>
<p>The lackey in knee-breeches and yellow stockings who answered the inside
bell was almost speechless at the sight of the white face which
confronted him at the door. No, the Baron was not at home. He had not
been there since early in the evening. Had he gone to the Prefettura?
Possibly. Or the Consulta? Perhaps.</p><p>`那個穿著短褲和黃色絲襪的僕人，在聽到門內的鈴聲後出現，看到門口那張白色的臉幾乎說不出話來。不，男爵不在家。他自傍晚以來就沒有出現在這裡。他去了警察總局嗎？可能吧。或者去了顧問會？也許吧。`</p>
<p>"Which, man, which?" said Rossi, and to say something the lackey
stammered "The Consulta," and closed the door.</p><p>"哪一個，哪一個?"羅西說，而為了說些什麼，管家結結巴巴地說 "The Consulta," 然後關上了門。</p>
<p>Rossi set his face towards the Foreign Office. There was a light in the
stained-glass windows of the Pope's private chapel—the Holy Father was
at his prayers. A canvas-covered barrow containing a man who had been
injured by the soldiers was being wheeled into the Hospital of Santo
Spirito, and a woman and a child were walking and crying beside it.</p><p>"羅西把臉轉向外交部。教皇的私人禮拜堂的彩繪玻璃窗內燈火通明，聖父正在禱告。一輛用帆布覆蓋的手推車裡，載著一名被士兵們傷害的男子，正在被推進聖斯皮里托醫院，而一位女子和一位孩子走在旁邊，邊走邊哭泣。"</p>
<p>The streets were covered with broken tiles which had been thrown on to
the heads of the cavalry as they galloped through the principal
thoroughfares. Carabineers, with revolvers in hand, were dragging
themselves on their stomachs along the roofs, trying to surprise the
rioters who were hiding behind chimney-stacks. Some one shouted: "Cut
the electric wires," and men were clambering up the tall posts and
breaking the electric lamps.</p><p>街道上布滿了被扔向騎兵的破瓦片，當他們穿越主要的街道時。持手槍的憲兵在屋頂上爬行，試圖驚嚇那些躲在煙囪後的暴民。有人喊著：“切斷電線”，於是有人爬上高高的柱子，破壞電燈。</p>
<p>The Consulta, the office of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, stands in
the Piazza of the Quirinal, and when Rossi reached it the great square
of the King was as silent as the great square of the Pope had been.</p><p>`顧問會議，即外交部長的辦公室，位於奎利諾宮的廣場。當羅西抵達時，國王的大廣場與教皇的大廣場一樣寂靜無聲。`</p>
<p>Two sentries were in boxes on either side of the royal gate, and one
Carabineer was in the doorway. The gardens down the long corridor lay
dark in the shadows, but the fountain with sculptured horses, the
splashing water, and the front of the building were white under the
electric lamps as if from a dazzling moon.<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00288" title="227"><a id="Page_227" title="227"></a></span></p><p>兩個哨兵分別站在王宮大門的兩邊的箱子裡，一個槍兵站在門口。長長的走廊下，花園在陰影中顯得黑暗，但是那雕刻著馬的噴泉、飛濺的水以及建築物的正面在電燈的照耀下顯得潔白如雪，如同在璀璨月光下一般。</p>
<p>Before turning into the silent courtyard of the Consulta, Rossi paused
and listened to the noises that came from the city. Men were singing and
women were screaming. The rattle of musketry mingled with the cries of
children. And over all were the steady downfall of the snow and the dull
rumble of distant thunder.</p><p>在走進Consulta寂靜的庭院之前，羅西停下來，傾聽城市傳來的噪音。男人們在唱歌，女人們在尖叫。槍炮的吵鬧聲與孩子的哭聲交織在一起。而覆蓋所有的只有穩定下落的雪和遠處的雷鳴聲。</p>
<p>Rossi held his head between his hands to prevent his senses from leaving
him. His rage was ebbing away, and he was beginning to tremble.
Nevertheless, he forced himself to go on. As he rang the bell at the
Foreign Office, he was partly conscious of a secret desire that the
Prime Minister might not be there.</p><p>羅西雙手握住頭部，防止自己失去理智。他的憤怒正在慢慢消退，他開始感到戰慄。無論如何，他強迫自己繼續前進。當他在外交部門響起門鈴時，他在秘密地期望首相可能不在那裡。</p>
<p>The porter was not sure. The Baron's carriage had just gone. Let him ask
on the telephone.... No, there had been a messenger from the Minister of
the Interior, but the Minister himself had not been there that night.</p><p>門房不確定。男爵的馬車剛剛離開。讓他在電話上問問……不，那晚內政部長並未親自來過，只有一位來自內政部的信使來過。</p>
<p>Rossi took a long breath of relief and went away. He had returned to the
bright side of the piazza when the lights seemed to be wiped out as
though by an invisible wing, and the whole city was plunged in darkness.
At the next moment a squadron of cavalry galloped up to the Quirinal,
and the gates of the royal palace and of the Consulta were closed.</p><p>羅西深深地撥出一口幸災樂禍的氣，然後走開了。當他回到廣場的光亮處時，燈火似乎被一隻無形之翼抹煞，整座城市陷入了黑暗。下一刻，一隊騎兵衝向奎里納爾，皇宮和康蘇爾塔的大門被關閉。</p>
<p>Midnight struck.</p><p>子夜已經敲響。</p>
<p>For two hours the soldiers had been charging the crowds by the light of
lanterns and torches. They had arrested hundreds of persons. Chained
together, two and two, the insurgents had been taken to the places of
detention, amid the cries of their women and children. "Who knows
whether we shall see each other again?" said the prisoners, as they
passed into the "House of Pain." One old woman went on her knees to the
soldiers and begged them to have pity on the people. "They are your
brothers, my sons," she cried.</p><p>"兩個小時以來，士兵們在燈籠和火炬的照亮下對群眾進行衝鋒。他們逮捕了數以百計的人。這些暴動者兩倆一組被鐵鍊鎖在一起，被帶到了看守所。女人和孩子們在後面哭喊。"我們是否還能再見面呢？" 犯人們在進入"痛苦之家"時這樣說。有一位老婦人跪在士兵面前，乞求他們憐憫群眾。"他們是你們的兄弟，我的兒子們，"她哭喊道。</p>
<p>One o'clock struck.</p><p>"凌晨一點鐘敲響了。"</p>
<p>The streets were still dark, but a searchlight from Monte Mario was
sweeping over the city like a flash of a supernatural eye. With
tottering limbs and his head on his breast, David Rossi was walking down
the Via due Macelli towards the column of the Immaculate Conception,
when a young girl spoke to him.</p><p>`街道仍然一片漆黑，但蒙特·馬里奧的探照燈像超自然的眼睛一樣掃過城市。大衛·羅西頭低胸前，步履蹣跚地沿著麥凱利二路向無瑕疵聖母的柱子走去，這時一個年輕的女孩對他說話。`
</p>
<p>"Honourable," she said, "is it true that the little boy is dead?... It
is? Oh, dear! I met him in the Corso, and brought him up as far as the
Variétés, and if I had only<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00289" title="228"><a id="Page_228" title="228"></a></span> taken him all the way.... Oh, I shall never
forgive myself!"</p><p>"尊敬的，"她說，"真的是那個小男孩死了嗎？...是的嗎？哎喲！我在科爾索遇見了他，並把他帶到了變裝秀的地方，如果我只是把他帶到最後….哦，我永遠都不會原諒自己！"</p>
<p>The city was quiet and all was hushed on every side when Rossi found
himself on a flight of steps at the back of Roma's apartment. From these
steps a door opened into the studio. One panel of the door was glazed,
and a light was shining from within. Going cautiously forward, Rossi
looked into the room. Roma was seated on a stool with her hands clasped
in her lap and her hair hanging loose. She was very pale. Her face
expressed unutterable sadness.</p><p>當羅西在羅馬公寓的後面找到一個樓梯時，整個城市都很安靜，四周都被鎮靜了下來。從這些樓梯可以走到工作室。門的一個面板是玻璃的，裡面透出光來。羅西小心翼翼地走近，看進了房間。羅馬坐在一張凳子上，雙手緊握在膝頭，頭髮散落。她臉色很蒼白。她的臉上流露出無法言說的悲傷。</p>
<p>Rossi listened for a moment, but there was not a sound to be heard
except that of the different clocks chiming the quarter. Then he tapped
lightly on the glass.</p><p>羅西靜聽片刻，但除了各種鐘錶報時之外，再也沒有其他聲音。然後，他輕輕地敲了敲玻璃。</p>
<p>"Roma!" he said in a low tone. "Roma!"</p><p>"羅馬!" 他低聲說。"羅馬!"</p>
<p>She rose up and shrank back. Then coming to the door, and shielding her
eyes from the light, she put her face close to the pane. At the next
moment she threw the door open.</p><p>她站起來，然後退縮回去。接著，她來到門口，用手遮住光線，把臉貼近玻璃窗。下一刻，她將門推開。</p>
<p>"Is it you?" she said in a tremulous voice, and taking his hand she drew
him hurriedly into the house.</p><p>"是你嗎？"她顫抖著聲音說，並拉著他的手急忙帶他進了房子。</p>
<h3 id="pgepubid00290">XII</h3>
<p>After the Baron was gone, Roma had sat a long time in the dark among the
ruins of the broken bust. When twelve o'clock struck she was feeling hot
and feverish, and, in spite of the coldness of the night, she rose and
opened the window. The snow had ceased to fall, the thunder was gone,
and the city was quiet.</p><p>"在男爵離去後，羅馬在破碎的雕像廢墟中坐了很長時間。到了十二點鐘，她感到熱和發燒，儘管夜晚很冷，她還是起身打開了窗戶。雪已經停止下落，雷聲已經消失，城市變得安靜。"</p>
<p>At that moment the revolving searchlight on Monte Mario passed over the
room. The white flash lit up the broken fragments at her feet, and
brought a new train of reflections. The bust she destroyed had been only
the plaster cast; the piece-mould remained, and might be a cause of
danger.</p><p>在那一刻，蒙特馬里奧上旋轉的探照燈掠過房間。白色的閃光照亮了她腳下的破碎碎片，引發了一系列新的思考。她所摧毀的胸像只是石膏模型;那塊模具仍然存在，可能會成為危險的原因。</p>
<p>She closed the window, took a candle, and went down to the studio to put
the mould out of the way. She had done so, and was sitting to rest and
to think when Rossi's knock came at the door. In a moment all her dreams
were gone. She was clasped in his arms and had put up her mouth to be
kissed.</p><p>她關上窗戶，拿起蠟燭，然後下到工作室把模具收好。她如此做了，正坐著休息和思考，羅西的敲門聲在這時傳來。瞬間，她所有的夢想都消失了。她被他緊緊擁抱，在他的懷裡，並抬起她的嘴等待他的親吻。</p>
<p>"Is it you?"</p><p>"是你嗎？"</p>
<p>"Roma!"</p><p>"羅馬!"</p>
<p>It was not at first that she realised what was happening,<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00291" title="229"><a id="Page_229" title="229"></a></span> but after a
moment she recovered from her bewilderment, and extinguished the candle
lest Rossi should be seen from outside.</p><p>她一開始並未意識到發生了什麼，但在片刻後，她從困惑中恢復過來，並熄滅了蠟燭，以免被外面的人看到羅西。</p>
<p>They were in the dark, save at intervals when the revolving light in its
circuit of the city swept across the studio, and lit up their faces as
by a flash of lightning. He seemed to be dazed. His weary eyes looked as
if their light were almost extinct.</p><p>他們身處黑暗中，只有當城市環繞的旋轉燈光每隔一段時間掠過工作室時，他們的臉龐會如閃電般照亮。他看起來似乎有些恍惚。他那疲累的眼神彷彿他們的光芒即將熄滅。</p>
<p>"You are safe? You are well?" she asked.</p><p>"你安全嗎？你好嗎？" 她問道。</p>
<p>"O God! what sights!" he said. "You have heard what has happened?"</p><p>"天哪！那些景象！"他說。"你們聽說發生了什麼嗎？"</p>
<p>"Yes, yes! But you are not injured?"</p><p>"對，對！但是你沒有受傷吧？"</p>
<p>"The people were peaceful and meant no evil, but the soldiers were
ordered to fire, and our little boy is dead."</p><p>"人民和平無惡意，但軍隊接獲開火的命令，而我們的小男孩已經死了。"</p>
<p>"Don't let us speak of it.... The police were told to arrest you, but
you have escaped thus far, and now...."</p><p>"不要再談這件事了....警方接到逮捕你的命令，但到現在為止，你都逃脫了，現在...."</p>
<p>"Bruno is taken, and hundreds of others are in prison."</p><p>"Bruno被帶走了，並且有數百人被囚禁在監獄裡。"</p>
<p>"But you are safe? You are well? You are uninjured?"</p><p>"但你安全嗎？你身體好嗎？你沒有受傷嗎？"</p>
<p>"Yes," he answered between his teeth, and then he covered his face with
his hands. "God knows I did my best to prevent this bloodshed—I would
have laid down my life to prevent it."</p><p>"對，"他緊咬著牙齒回答，然後用手遮住自己的臉。"天知道我盡力阻止這場流血事件——我願意犧牲自己的生命來阻止它。"</p>
<p>"God <i>does</i> know it."</p><p>"上帝確實知道。"</p>
<p>"Take this."</p><p>"拿這個。"</p>
<p>He drew something from his breast-pocket and put it into her hands.</p><p>他從胸口口袋裡拿出一樣東西，並放在她的手中。</p>
<p>It was the revolver.</p><p>那是一把左輪手槍。</p>
<p>"I cannot trust myself any longer."</p><p>"我已經不能再相信自己了。"</p>
<p>"You haven't used it?"</p><p>"你還沒有用過嗎？"</p>
<p>"No."</p><p>"不"</p>
<p>"Thank God!"</p><p>"感謝上帝！"</p>
<p>"I should have done so if I could have met the man face to face."</p><p>"如果我可以面對面地見到那個男人，我原本應該那麼做的。"</p>
<p>"The Baron?"</p><p>"男爵？"</p>
<p>"I searched for him everywhere, and couldn't find him. God kept him out
of my way to save me from sin and shame."</p><p>"我到處找他，但是找不到他。 為了讓我遠離罪過和羞愧，上帝讓他遠離了我。"</p>
<p>With a frightened cry she put down the revolver and clasped her hands
about his neck. He began to recover his dazed senses and to smooth the
hair on her damp forehead.</p><p>她驚恐地哭喊下放下手槍，並將雙手環抱在他的脖子上。他開始恢復昏迷的意識，並撫平她汗水淋漓前額上的頭髮。</p>
<p>"My poor Roma! You didn't think we were to part like this?"<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00292" title="230"><a id="Page_230" title="230"></a></span></p><p>"我的可憐的羅馬！你沒有想到我們會這樣分離吧？"</p>
<p>Her arms slackened, and she dropped her head on to his shoulder.</p><p>她的手臂放鬆了，然後她將頭靠在他的肩膀上。</p>
<p>"Last night you told me to fly, and I wouldn't do so. There was no man
in Rome I was afraid of then. But to-night there is some one I am afraid
of. I am afraid of myself."</p><p>"昨晚你告訴我要飛，我卻不會。那時羅馬沒有我害怕的人。但今晚我恐懼的人出現了。我害怕的是我自己。"</p>
<p>"You intend to go?"</p><p>"你打算去嗎？"</p>
<p>"Yes! I shall feel like a captain who deserts his sinking ship. Would to
God I could have gone down with her!... Yet no! She is not lost yet.
Everything is in God's hands. Perhaps there is work for me abroad, now
that the paths are closed to me at home. Let us wait and see."</p><p>"對！我會覺得像一位船長離棄他正在下沉的船。但願我能和船一起沉沒！…然而不！她還沒有完全失去。一切都在上帝的手中。也許在我國內的道路被阻斷後，我在國外還有工作要做。我們就等著瞧吧。"</p>
<p>They were both silent for a while.</p><p>他們兩個都沉默了一會兒。</p>
<p>"Then it's all over," she said, gulping down a sob.</p><p>"那就全結束了，"她說，壓住一個哽咽。</p>
<p>"God forbid! This black night in Rome is only the beginning of the end.
It will be the dawn of the resurrection everywhere."</p><p>"天佑啊！這黑夜的羅馬只是終結的開始。
這將會是復活曙光的到來。"</p>
<p>"But it is all over between you and me."</p><p>"但是你和我之間的一切已經結束了。"</p>
<p>"Indeed, no. No, no! I cannot take you with me. That is impossible. I
couldn't see you suffer hunger and thirst and the privations of exile,
but...."</p><p>"的確，不。不，不！我不能帶你跟我走。這是不可能的。我不能看到你餓和渴，以及流亡的困苦，但是..."</p>
<p>"Our marriage cannot be celebrated now, and that being so...."</p><p>"我們現在不能慶祝我們的婚禮，那既然如此...."</p>
<p>"The banns are good for half a year, Roma, and before that time I shall
be back. Have no fear! The immortality stirring beneath the ruins of
this old city will give us victory all over Italy. I will return and we
shall be very happy. How happy we shall be!"</p><p>"結婚公告的效力持續半年，羅馬，那之前我就會回來。不要害怕！這座古老城市的廢墟下躺著的不朽將會讓我們在整個義大利取得勝利。我會回來，我們會非常快樂。我們將會有多麼快樂呀！"</p>
<p>"Yes, yes," she brought out at intervals.</p><p>"是的，是的，"她間歇性地說出來。</p>
<p>"Be brave, my girl, be brave!"</p><p>"勇敢點，我的女孩，勇敢點！"</p>
<p>"Yes, yes."</p><p>"是的，是的。"</p>
<p>The revolving searchlight flashed through the room at that moment, and
she dropped her face again.</p><p>那一刻，旋轉的探照燈照射過房間，她又低下了臉。</p>
<p>"Dearest," she said faintly, "if I should not be here when you come
back...."</p><p>"親愛的，"她微弱地說，"如果我在你回來的時候不在這裡...."</p>
<p>He started and seized her arm.</p><p>他起身並緊握住她的手臂。</p>
<p>"Roma, you cannot intend to submit to the will of that man?"</p><p>"羅馬，你不可能打算屈服於那個男人的意願吧？"</p>
<p>She shook her head as it rested on his shoulder.</p><p>她把頭靠在他的肩膀上晃了晃。</p>
<p>"The man is a monster. He may put pressure upon you."</p><p>"這個男人是個怪物。他可能會對你施加壓力。"</p>
<p>"It is not that."<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00293" title="231"><a id="Page_231" title="231"></a></span></p><p>"這不是那個。"</p>
<p>"He may even make you suffer for my sake."</p><p>"他甚至可能讓你為了我而受苦。"</p>
<p>"Nor that either."</p><p>"也不是那個。"</p>
<p>"By-and-by he may require everybody to take an oath of allegiance to the
King."</p><p>"他可能最終會要求每個人對國王進行效忠的誓言。"</p>
<p>"I have taken mine already—to <i>my</i> king."</p><p>"我已經向我的國王獻出了自己。"</p>
<p>"Roma, if you wish me to stay I will do so in spite of everything."</p><p>"羅馬，如果你希望我留下，我將不顧一切地留下來。"</p>
<p>"I wish you to go, dearest."</p><p>"我希望你走，最親愛的。"</p>
<p>"Then what is it you fear?"</p><p>"那你害怕什麼呢？"</p>
<p>"Nothing—only...."</p><p>"什麼也沒有——只是...."</p>
<p>"But you are sad. Why is it?"</p><p>"但你看起來很悲傷。為什麼呢?"</p>
<p>"A foreboding. I feel as if we were parting for ever."</p><p>"一種不祥的預感。我感覺就像我們永遠在分開。"</p>
<p>He passed his hands through her hair. "It may be so. Only God can tell."</p><p>他的手穿過她的頭髮。"可能吧。只有上帝能告訴。"</p>
<p>"It was too sweet dreaming. I was too happy for a little while."</p><p>"這夢太甜了。我曾經有片刻太快樂了。"</p>
<p>"If it must be, it must be. But let us be brave, dear! We, who take up a
life like this, must learn renunciation.... Crying, Roma?"</p><p>"如果必須如此，那就必須如此。但讓我們保持勇敢，親愛的！我們這些選擇這種生活的人，必須學會放下....羅馬，你在哭嗎？"</p>
<p>"No! Oh, no! But renunciation! That's it—renunciation." She could feel
the beating of her heart against his breast. "Love comes to every one,
but to some it comes too late, and then it comes in vain." She was
striving to keep down her sobs. "They have only to conquer it and
renounce it, and to pray God to unite them to their loved ones in
another life." She was choking, but she struggled on. "Sometimes I think
it must be my lot to be like that. Other women may dream of love and
home and children...."</p><p>"不！哦，不！但是放棄！這就是放棄。"她能感覺到自己的心在他的胸口跳動。"愛情會來到每個人身邊，但對於某些人來說，它來得太晚，然後它就變得徒勞。"她在努力壓制自己的哭泣。"他們只需要克服它，放棄它，然後祈禱上帝在另一個生命中把他們與他們所愛的人聯接起來。"她正在窒息，但她還在掙扎。"有時候我覺得這可能就是我的命運。其他的女人可能會夢想著愛情和家庭和孩子……"</p>
<p>"Don't unman me, Roma."</p><p>"羅馬，不要讓我失去男子氣概。"</p>
<p>"Dearest, promise me that whatever happens you will think the best of
me."</p><p>"親愛的，請你答應我，無論發生什麼事，你都會對我抱持最好的看法。"</p>
<p>"Roma!"</p><p>"羅馬!"</p>
<p>"Promise me that whoever says anything to the contrary you will always
believe I loved you."</p><p>"向我保證，無論誰說反對的話，你將始終相信我愛過你。"</p>
<p>"Why should we talk of what can never happen?"</p><p>"我們為什麼要談論永遠不會發生的事情呢？"</p>
<p>"If we are parting for ever ... if we are saying a long farewell to all
earthly affections, promise me...."</p><p>"如果我們永遠分開了... 如果我們對所有的世俗之情說長長的告別，請你答應我...."</p>
<p>"For God's sake, Roma!"</p><p>"看在上帝的份上，Roma！"</p>
<p>"Promise me!"</p><p>"答應我!"</p>
<p>"I promise!" he said. "And you?"</p><p>"我保證！"他說。"你呢？"</p>
<p>"I promise too—I promise that as long as I live, and wherever I am and
whatever becomes of me, I will ... yes, because I cannot help it ... I
will love you to the last."<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00294" title="232"><a id="Page_232" title="232"></a></span></p><p>"我承諾，只要我還活著，不論我在哪裡，不論我變成什麼樣子，我會...是的，因為我無法抗拒...我會一直愛你到最後。"</p>
<p>Saying this in passionate tones, she drew down his head and he met her
kiss with his lips.</p><p>說完這話，她深情地低下頭，他也用自己的嘴唇去迎接她的吻。</p>
<p>"It is our marriage, David. Others are married in church and by the
hand, and with a ring. We are married in our spirits and our souls."</p><p>"這是我們的婚姻，大衛。其他人在教堂裡，透過手和戒指結婚。我們的婚姻在我們的精神和靈魂中。"</p>
<p>A long time passed, during which they did not speak. The searchlight
flashed in on them again and again with its supernatural eye, and as
often as it did so Rossi looked at her with strange looks of pity and of
love.</p><p>經過了很長一段時間，期間他們沒有說話。探照燈的超自然之眼一次又一次地照亮他們，每當這種情況發生，羅西都用一種奇怪的、充滿憐憫和愛意的眼神看著她。</p>
<p>Meantime, she cut a lock from her hair, tied it with a piece of ribbon,
and put it in his pocket with his watch. Then she dried her eyes with
her handkerchief and pushed it in his breast.</p><p>與此同時，她從自己的頭髮中剪下一綹，用一條緞帶繫住，然後放進他的口袋裡和他的手錶一起。然後她用手帕擦乾眼淚，塞進他的胸口。</p>
<p>The night went on, and nothing was to be heard but the chiming of clocks
outside. At length through the silence there came a muffled rumble from
the streets.</p><p>夜晚過去，外面只聽得到鐘的報時聲。經過了一段寂靜，終於從街上傳來了低沉的隆隆聲。</p>
<p>"You must go now," she said, and when the next flash came round she
looked up at him with a steadfast gaze, as if trying to gather into her
eyes her last memories of his face.</p><p>"你必須現在就走，"她說，當下一次閃光出現時，她堅定地看著他，好像試圖用眼睛將他的臉的最後回憶全部收集到一起。</p>
<p>"Adieu!"</p><p>"再見!"</p>
<p>"Not yet."</p><p>"還沒有。"</p>
<p>"It is still dark, but the streets are patrolled and every gate is
closed, and how are you to escape?"</p><p>"天還很黑，但街道已有警衛巡邏，每個門都被關閉，你要怎麼逃脫呢？"</p>
<p>"If the soldiers had wished to take me they could have done so a hundred
times."</p><p>"如果士兵們想要抓我，他們早就有數百次的機會了。"</p>
<p>"But the city is stirring. Be careful for my sake. Adieu!"</p><p>"但是城市正在騷動。為了我，請小心。再見!"</p>
<p>"Roma," said Rossi, "if I do not take you with me it is partly because I
want your help in Rome. Think of the poor people I leave behind me in
poverty and in prison. Think of Elena when she awakes in the morning,
alone with her terrible grief. Some one should be here to represent me
for a time at all events—to take the messages I must send, the
instructions I shall have to give. It will be a dangerous task, Roma, a
task that can only be undertaken by some one who loves me, some one
who...."</p><p>"羅馬，"羅西說，"如果我不帶你一起走，一部分是因為我需要你在羅馬的幫助。想想我在貧窮和監獄中留下的人們。想想當她早上醒來時，獨自一人承受她那可怕悲傷的艾琳娜。這裡應該有人成為我一段時間的代表——去接收我必須發送的消息，接收我必須給出的指示。這將是一個危險的任務，羅馬，只有一個愛我的人...一個...."</p>
<p>"That is enough. Tell me what I can do," she said.</p><p>"那就夠了。告訴我我能做什麼,"她說。</p>
<p>They arranged a channel of correspondence, and then Roma began her
farewells afresh.</p><p>他們安排了一條通訊管道，然後羅馬重新開始了她的告別。</p>
<p>"Roma," said Rossi again, "since I must go away before our civil
marriage can be celebrated, is it not best that our spiritual one should
have the blessing of the Church?"<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00295" title="233"><a id="Page_233" title="233"></a></span></p><p>"羅馬，" 羅西再次說道， "因為我必須在我們的民事婚禮可以舉行之前就離開，我們的精神婚禮不是最好也得到教會的祝福嗎?"</p>
<p>Roma looked at him and trembled.</p><p>"羅馬看著他，感到戰慄。"</p>
<p>"When I am gone God knows what may happen. The Baron may be a free man
any day, and he may put pressure on you to marry him. In that case it
will be strength and courage to you to know that in God's eyes you are
married already. It will be happiness and comfort to me, too, when I am
far away from you and alone."</p><p>"當我不在的時候，天知道會發生什麼事。男爵可能在任何一天都成為自由的人，他可能會對你施壓，要求你嫁給他。在這種情況下，你知道在上帝眼裡你已經結婚了，這會是你的力量和勇氣。當我遠離你並獨自一人時，這也將是我的幸福和平安。"</p>
<p>"But it is impossible."</p><p>"但這是不可能的。"</p>
<p>"Not so. A declaration before a parish priest is all that is necessary.
'Father, this is my wife.' 'This is my husband.' That is enough. It will
have no value in the eye of the law, but it will be a religious marriage
for all that."</p><p>"不是這樣。只需在教區牧師面前做出宣告就足夠了。「神父，這是我的妻子。」 「這是我的丈夫。」就夠了。這在法律眼中可能沒有價值，但這仍是宗教婚姻。"</p>
<p>"There is no time. You cannot wait...."</p><p>"沒有時間了。你不能等待...."</p>
<p>"Hush!" The clocks were striking three. "At three o'clock there is mass
at St. Andrea delle Frate. That is your parish church, Roma. The priest
and his acolytes are the only witnesses we require."</p><p>"噓！"鐘聲正在敲響三點。"三點鐘在 St. Andrea delle Frate 有彌撒。那是你的所在的教區教堂，羅馬。我們唯一需要的見證人就是神父和他的助手。"</p>
<p>"If you think ... that is to say ... if it will make you happy, and be a
strength to me also...."</p><p>"如果你認為...也就是說...如果這能讓你感到快樂，並且也能給我力量...."</p>
<p>"Run for your cloak and hat, dearest—in ten minutes it will be done."</p><p>"親愛的，去拿你的披風和帽子——十分鍾內就會好的。"</p>
<p>"But think again." She was breathing audibly. "Who knows what may happen
before you return? Will you never repent?"</p><p>"但是再想想吧。"她聲音明顯地顫抖。"誰知道你回來之前會發生什麼呢？你永遠不會悔改嗎？"</p>
<p>"Never!"</p><p>"從來不！"</p>
<p>"But ... but there is something ... something I ought to tell
you—something painful. It is about the past."</p><p>"但是...但是有些事情...我應該告訴你一些痛苦的事情。這是關於過去的。"</p>
<p>"The past is past. Let us think of the future."</p><p>"過去的就讓它過去，讓我們考慮未來。"</p>
<p>"You do not wish to hear it."</p><p>"你不希望聽到它。"</p>
<p>"If it is painful to you—no!"</p><p>"如果這對你來說是痛苦的—不！"</p>
<p>"Will nothing and nobody divide us?"</p><p>"我們會被任何事物或任何人分開嗎？"</p>
<p>"Nothing and nobody in the world."</p><p>"世界上沒有什麼和任何人。"</p>
<p>She gulped down another choking sob and threw both arms about his neck.</p><p>她哽咽著抑制住另一個哭泣，並將兩臂環繞他的脖子。</p>
<p>"Take me, then. I am your wife before God and man."</p><p>"那就帶我走吧。在上帝和人類面前，我是你的妻子。"</p>
<h3 id="pgepubid00296">XIII</h3>
<p>It was still dark overhead, and the streets with their thin covering of
snow were as silent as a catacomb. Through the door of the church, when
the leather covering was lifted, there came the yellow light of the
candles burning on the<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00297" title="234"><a id="Page_234" title="234"></a></span> altar. The priest in his gold vestments stood
with his face to the glistening shrine, and his acolytes knelt beside
him. There was only one worshipper, an old woman who was kneeling before
a chair in the gloom of a side chapel. The tinkle of the acolytes' bell
and the faint murmur of the priest's voice were the only sounds that
broke the stillness.</p><p>`天空仍然黑暗，街道上薄薄的雪覆蓋使其寂靜如墓穴。當教堂的門上的皮革覆蓋被掀開時，祭壇上燃燒的蠟燭照出黃色的光。祭司身穿金色祭袍，面向閃爍的聖壇站立，他的侍祭兒童在他身旁跪下。只有一位敬拜者，一位老婦人在偏殿的昏暗中跪在椅子前。侍祭兒童的鈴聲和祭司微弱的聲音是唯一打破寂靜的聲音。`</p>
<p>Rossi and Roma stepped up on tiptoe, and as the Father finished his mass
and turned to go they made their declaration. The old man was startled
and disturbed, but the priest commits no crime who listens to the voice
of conscience, and he took their names and gave them his blessing. They
parted at the church door.</p><p>"羅西和羅馬踮起腳尖，等神父做完彌撒轉身要走的時候，他們作出了他們的宣告。老人被震驚和打擾，但是聆聽良心之聲的神父並未犯下任何罪行，他記下他們的名字並給予他們祝福。他們在教堂門口分別。"</p>
<p>"You will write when you cross the frontier?"</p><p>"你會在過了邊境後寫信嗎？"</p>
<p>"Yes."</p><p>"是的。"</p>
<p>"Adieu then, until we meet again!"</p><p>"那麼，再見了，直到我們再次相遇！"</p>
<p>"If I am long away from you, Roma...."</p><p>"如果我離你遠去，羅馬...."</p>
<p>"You cannot be long away. You will be with me every day and always."</p><p>"你不能離我太久。你將每天和永遠都在我身邊。"</p>
<p>She was assuming a lively tone to keep up his courage, but there was a
dry glitter in her eyes and a tremor in her voice.</p><p>她以活潑的語調維持他的勇氣，但她眼中卻有乾澀的閃爍，聲音裡也帶著顫抖。</p>
<p>He took her full, round form in his arms for a last embrace. "If the
result of this night's work is that I am arrested and brought back and
imprisoned...."</p><p>他將她豐滿的身軀緊緊地擁在懷中，進行最後的擁抱。“如果今晚的結果是我被逮捕、帶回並被囚禁......”</p>
<p>"I can wait for you," she said.</p><p>「我可以等你，」她說。</p>
<p>"If I am banished for life...."</p><p>"如果我被流放終身...."</p>
<p>"I can follow you."</p><p>"我可以跟隨你。"</p>
<p>"If the worst comes to the worst, and one way or another death itself
should be the fate that falls to me...."</p><p>"如果最壞的情況發生，無論如何我都註定要死...."</p>
<p>"I can follow you there, too."</p><p>"我也可以跟你到那裡。"</p>
<p>"If we meet again we can laugh at all this, Roma."</p><p>"如果我們再次見面，我們可以笑看這一切，羅馬。"</p>
<p>"Yes, we can laugh at all this," she faltered.</p><p>"是的，我們可以嘲笑這一切，"她語氣畏縮。</p>
<p>"If not ... Adieu!"</p><p>"如果不是... 再見！"</p>
<p>"Adieu!"</p><p>"再見！"</p>
<p>She disengaged her clinging arms with one last caress; there was an
instant of unconsciousness, and when she recovered herself he was gone.</p><p>她在最後一次的愛撫中解開了緊抱的雙臂；一瞬間意識模糊，當她恢復知覺時，他已經離開。</p>
<p>At the next moment there came through the darkness the measured tramp,
tramp, tramp of the patrol. With a quivering heart Roma stood and
listened. There was a slight movement among the soldiers, a scarcely
perceptible pause, and then the tramp, tramp, tramp as before. Rossi<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00298" title="235"><a id="Page_235" title="235"></a></span>
looked back as he turned the corner, and saw Roma, in her light cloak,
gliding across the silent street like a ghost.</p><p>在下一刻，巡邏隊的有節奏的步伐聲在黑暗中傳來。激動不安的羅馬站著聆聽。士兵們微微動了一下，幾乎無法察覺的暫停，然後再次傳來那節奏有致的步伐聲。羅西在轉角時回頭看了看，看到羅馬，她披著淺色披風，在寂靜的街道上像鬼魂般滑行。</p>
<p>Three or four hundred yards inside the gate of St. John Lateran in one
of the half-finished tenement houses on the outskirts of Rome, there is
a cellar used as a resting-place and eating-house by the carriers from
the country who bring wine into the city. This cellar was the only place
that seemed to be awake when Rossi walked towards the city walls. Some
eight or nine men, in the rude dress of wine-carriers, lay dozing or
talking on the floor. They had been kept in Rome overnight by the
closing of the gate, and were waiting for it to be opened in the
morning.</p><p>在聖約翰拉特朗大門內三四百碼的地方，羅馬市郊一座半成品的公寓樓在那裡，有一個地下室被用作從鄉下送酒進城的攜帶者的休息地和食堂。這個地下室是Rossi走向城市牆壁時唯一看起來還醒著的地方。大約八九個男人，穿著粗糙的送酒工的裝扮，躺在地板上打瞌睡或聊天。他們因為城門封閉而被困在羅馬過夜，正在等待天亮開門。</p>
<p>Without a moment's hesitation David Rossi stepped down and spoke to the
men.</p><p>不假思索，大衛·羅西走下來向男人們說話。</p>
<p>"Gentlemen," he said, "you know who I am. I am Rossi. The police have
orders to arrest me. Will you help me to get out of Rome?"</p><p>"先生們，"他說，"你們知道我是誰。我是Rossi。警察已經下令要逮捕我。你們會幫助我逃出羅馬嗎？"</p>
<p>"What's that?" shouted a drowsy voice from the smoky shadows of the
cellar.</p><p>"那是什麼？"一個昏昏欲睡的聲音從地窖煙霧騰騰的陰影中大喊。</p>
<p>"It's the Honourable Rossi," said a lad who had shambled up. "The
oysters are after him, and will we help him to escape?"</p><p>“那是名譽的Rossi，" 一個剛才走上來的男孩說。 "蠔正在追他，我們要幫他逃脫嗎？”</p>
<p>"Will we? It's not <i>will</i> we; it's <i>can</i> we, Honourable," said a
thick-set man, who lifted his head from an upturned horse-saddle.</p><p>"我們會嗎？這不是我們會不會，而是我們能不能，尊敬的，"一個身材魁梧的男子抬起頭來，他的頭正從一個翻轉的馬鞍上抬起。</p>
<p>In a moment the men were all on their feet, asking questions and
discussing chances. The gate was to be opened at six, and the first
train north was to go out at half-past nine. But the difficulty was that
everybody in Rome knew Rossi. Even if he got through the gate he could
not get on to the train within ten miles of the city without the
certainty of recognition.</p><p>`片刻之後，所有的人都站了起來，詢問問題並討論可能的機會。門將於六點開放，第一班向北的火車將於九點半出發。但問題是羅馬的所有人都認識羅西。即使他通過了門，也不能在城市十英里內上火車，那肯定會被人認出來。`</p>
<p>"I have it!" said the thick-set man with the drowsy voice. "There's
young Carlo. He got a scratch in the leg last night from one of the wet
nurses of the Government, and he'll have to lie upstairs for a week at
least. Why can't he lend his clothes to the Honourable? And why can't
the Honourable drive Carlo's cart back to Monte Rotondo, and then go
where he likes when he gets there?"</p><p>"我有主意了！"那個語帶沉鬱聲音的粗壯男人說。"那個年輕的卡羅，他昨晚在政府的一個濕護士那裡被颳了腿，他至少得躺在樓上一週。為什麼他不能把他的衣服借給貴人呢？為什麼貴人不能開卡羅的車回到蒙特羅通多，然後在那裡他想去哪裡就去哪裡呢?"</p>
<p>"That will do," said Rossi, and so it was settled.</p><p>"那就行了，"羅西說，所以事情就這麼定下來了。</p>
<hr class="minor"/>
<p>When the train which left Rome for Florence and Milan at 9.30 in the
morning arrived at the country station of<span class="x-ebookmaker-pageno" id="pgepubid00299" title="236"><a id="Page_236" title="236"></a></span> Monte Rotondo, eighteen miles
out, a man in top-boots, blue trousers, a white waistband and a
red-lined overcoat got into the people's compartment. The train was
crowded with foreigners who were flying from the risks of insurrection,
and even the third-class carriages were filled with well-dressed
strangers. They were talking bitterly of their experiences the night
before. Most of them had been compelled to barricade their bedroom doors
at the hotels, and some had even passed the night at the railway
station.</p><p>當早上9點半從羅馬出發，前往佛羅倫薩和米蘭的火車抵達蒙特羅通多鄉間車站時，一個身穿長筒靴、藍色褲子、白色腰帶和紅色衣襟大衣的男人走進了人們擁擠的車廂裡。這趟火車上滿是正在逃離起義風險的外國人，甚至連三等車廂都坐滿了時髦的陌生人。他們憤然地談論著前一晚的經歷。大多數人不得不在旅館房間的門口設置路障，一些人甚至在火車站度過了整夜。</p>
<p>"It all comes of letting men like this Rossi go at large," said a young
Englishman with the voice of a pea-hen. "For my part, I would put all
these anarchists on an uninhabited island and leave them to fight it out
among themselves."</p><p>"讓像這種的羅西這種人四處走動，一切皆有可能，"一位年輕的英國人用豌豆雞的聲音說。"就我而言，我會把所有這些無政府主義者放到一個無人居住的島上，讓他們自己解決。"</p>
<p>"Say, Rossi isn't an anarchist," said a man with an American intonation.</p><p>“說，羅西不是無政府主義者，”一個男人用美國口音說。</p>
<p>"What is he?"</p><p>"他是什麼？"</p>
<p>"A dreamer of dreams."</p><p>"夢想家。"</p>
<p>"Bad dreams, then," said the voice of the pea-hen, and there was general
laughter.</p><p>"那就是壞夢，"孔雀母說，然後所有人都開始大笑。</p>
<hr class="major"/>
</body></html>
